>>> THE NATION'S TOP INFECTIOUS
DISEASE EXPERT SAYS HE WILL WARN
THE SENATE THAT REOPENING THE
ECONOMY TOO FAST COULD CAUSE
NEEDLESS SUFFERING AND DEATH.
ANTHONY FAUCI SPEAKS BEFORE THE
LABOR AND PENSIONS COMMITTEE.
ALONG WITH THREE OTHER HEALTH
OFFICIALS. YOU CAN SEE THE
HEARING ROOM SET UP FOR SOCIAL
DISTANCE. THIS IS LIVE COVERAGE
FROM THE WASHINGTON POST. I'M
LINDSEY CASEY. TODAY'S HEARING
IS SCHEDULED TO START AT 10:00
EASTERN TIME.
IT'S DR. FAUCI'S FIRST TIME
APPEARING BEFORE CONGRESS SINCE
PRESIDENT TRUMP DECLARED A
PUBLIC EMERGENCY BACK IN MARCH.
AND THE FEDERAL OFFICIAL WHO
OVERSEES THE CORONAVIRUS TESTING
EFFORTS. WELL, JOINING ME TODAY
TO TALK ABOUT THE HEARING.
YASMINE ABU TALA.
IT'S SO GOOD FOR YOU TO BE WITH
US FROM YOUR HOME. SINCE WE'RE
PRACTICING SOCIAL DISTANCING.
WHAT IS SO KEY
ABOUT TODAY'S HEARING, YASMINE?
>> THIS IS THE FIRST TIME WE'VE
SEEN A HEALTH OFFICIAL TESTIFY
SINCE MARCH. THE HEARING TODAY
IS SUPPOSED TO BE ABOUT
REOPENING THE COUNTRY.
ASKING ABOUT HOW TO SAFELY
GO BACK TO WORK. MOST HAVE TO
QUARANTINE BECAUSE THEY CAME IN
CONFIRMED CONTACT WITH CASES.
AND DR. JAWA, FROM HHS. THEY ARE
ALL QUARANTINING AT HOME RIGHT
NOW, BECAUSE THEY CAME IN
CONTACT WITH VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE'S PRESS SECRET EAR, WHO
TESTED POSITIVE FOR CORONAVIRUS
LAST WEEK.
THERE ARE QUESTIONS IF THEY
CAN'T KEEP CASES OUT OF THE
BUILDING, THEN HOW CAN AMERICANS
FEEL SAFE GOING BACK TO
WORKPLACES THAT WILL LIKELY HAVE
MUCH FEWER RESOURCES? AND LAMAR
ALEXANDER, THE COMMITTEE
CHAIRMAN IS ALSO CONDUCTING THE
HEARING VIRTUALLY, BECAUSE ONE
OF HIS STAFF MEMBERS TESTED
POSITIVE. SO HE'S CONDUCTING IT
REMOTELY FROM HIS HOME.
>> I'M GLAD YOU BROUGHT UP THE
IRONY
OF THAT, YASMEN. IT IS
IMPORTANT TO -- I'M GOING TO
TURN TO OUR CORRESPONDENT,
RHONDA COLVIN.
WHAT CAN YOU TELL US ABOUT THE
UNUSUAL LOGISTICS OF TODAY'S
HEARING?
>> GOOD TO HEAR YOU
AS WELL, LIBBY.
THESE ARE GOING TO BE
PARTICIPATING IN THIS HEARING
REMOTELY. THAT INCLUDES CHAIRMAN
LAMAR ALEXANDER. AND I'M ALSO
HEARING THAT SENATOR MURRAY, THE
LEADING AIDE FROM WASHINGTON
STATE WILL BE DOING THIS FROM
HOME AS WELL. THEY WILL HAVE
PEOPLE, INCLUDING DR. FAUCI
GIVING THEIR STATEMENTS TODAY
THIS. IS CERTAINLY A DIFFERENT
LANDSCAPE ON THE HILL. PART OF A
NEW NORMAL.
WHEN YOU GET A SHOT OF THE ROOM,
YOU'RE GOING TO SEE THAT THE
CHAIRS ARE GOING TO BE SEPARATED
SO TATHEY ARE 6'APART.
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC ARE NOT
GOING TO BE ABLE TO ATTEND THIS.
AND MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC CANNOT
BE ON THE HILL RIGHT NOW
ANYWAYS. BUT THIS COMMITTEE WILL
BE FAR DIFFERENT FROM WHAT WE
ARE USED TO. I'M ALSO HEARING
SOME OF THEM MAY BE ATTENDING
VIRTUALLY. AND THERE WILL BE TV
MONITORS IN THAT ROOM AS WELL.
SO THAT THEY CAN SEE THOSE
PARTICIPATING VIRTUALLY. PART OF
THE NORMALCY THAT YOU WILL SEE.
THERE WILL BE A FIVE-MINUTE
ROUND OF QUESTIONING FOR EACH OF
THE SENATORS  WHO ASKED DR.
FAUCI AND OTHERS THE QUESTIONS
THEY HAD ON THEIR MIND,
REGARDING THE ECONOMY AND
TESTING AND VACCINES. SO THAT'S
GOING TO BE A PART OF A NORMAL
HEARING. BUT THE REST OF IT IS
CERTAINLY NEW. AND CERTAINLY
HISTORIC. RHONDA, WHAT ARE YOU
GOING TO BE LISTENING FOR TODAY?
>> Reporter: I'M GOING TO BE
LISTENING, HEARING MORE ABOUT
TESTING. WE KNOW THAT WHEN DR.
FAUCI WAS HERE TWO MONTHS AGO,
IN MARCH, IN FRONT OF A HOUSE
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE, TESTING WAS
A BIG ISSUE THEN. AND THIS
COMMITTEE HAS SORT OF BEEN THE
CENTERPOINT FOR DISCUSSIONS OF
TESTING ON THE HILL.
LAMAR ALEXANDER HAS PITCHED THE
IDEA OF HAVING A SHARK TANK
STYLE APPROACH TO GETTING MORE
TESTING HERE IN THE UNITED
STATES.
HE'S HELD HEARINGSES WHERE TECH
EXPERTS HAVE BEEN COMING TO
PROPOSE IDEAS THEY HAVE TO RAMP
UP TESTING. IT'S BEEN A KEY
ISSUE. HE SAID IT'S CRUCIAL TO
STARTING THE ECONOMY AGAIN. IT'S
CRUCIAL TO GETTING PEOPLE
COMFORTABLE, GOING INTO THEIR
JOBS AGAIN. AND FOR SCHOOLS TO
OPEN UP. SO HE WILL LIKELY
DEFINITELY FOCUS ON TESTING. AND
SENATOR MURRAY HAS BEEN TALKING
ABOUT TESTING IN THIS COMMITTEE,
WAY BACK IN MARCH. AND SHE'S
FROM WASHINGTON STATE, WHICH WE
KNOW IS ONE OF THE EARLY,
HARD-HIT STATES. SO SHE
DEFINITELY IS ALSO GOING TO BE
FOCUSING ON TESTING. I THINK
THAT'S GOING TO BE KEY HERE. OF
COURSE WE HEARD THE PRESIDENT
YESTERDAY SAYING THAT WHEN IT
COMES TO TESTING, WE'VE
PREVAILED. BUT YOU'RE CERTAINLY
GOING TO HEAR MORE TO THAT.
>> YOU MENTIONED THE TWO TOP
MEMBERS. THIS IS A
REPUBLICAN-LED COMMITTEE. AND
DR. FAUCI AT FIRST DIDN'T WANT
TO TESTIFY. OR RATHER, THE WHITE
HOUSE WAS NOT GOING TO LET HIM
TESTIFY BEFORE THE HOUSE. HE IS
APPEARING BEFORE THIS COMMITTEE.
WHAT DYNAMICS WILL YOU BE
WATCHING FOR?
>> YEAH. THIS ISN'T A COMMITTEE
THAT WE HAVE TYPICALLY COVERED.
BUT IT IS A PRETTY NOTABLE
COMMITTEE. AND HISTORICALLY,
USUALLY HAVE BIG NAMES ON IT.
HILLARY CLINTON SERVED ON THIS
COMMITTEE, BARACK OBAMA SERVED
ON THIS COMMITTEE AND JOHN
McCAIN. MITT ROMNEY ON THE
REPUBLICAN SIDE, RAND PAUL,
BERNIE SANDERS IS ON THIS
COMMITTEE, YOU'RE DEFINITELY
GOING TO SEE SOME HOUSEHOLD
NAMES TODAY. AND A LOT OF THEM
>> THE COMMITTEE IS CHAIRED BY
LAMAR ALEXANDER. A RETIRED
SENATOR FROM TENNESSEE. HE'S
APPEARING REMOTELY. BECAUSE HE
SELF-QUARANTINED. BECAUSE THE
STAFF GOT IT. TENANT USUALLY
GETS FIRST DIBS ON HIGH-PROFILE
HEARINGS LIKE THIS. IT'S
ESPECIALLY TRUE IN THIS CASE.
BECAUSE
THE ADMINISTRATION DOESN'T WANT
WITNESSES APPEARING BEFORE
DEMOCRATS. THE TRUMP TEAM CAN
EXERT A LOT MORE CONTROL OVER
THE GROUND RULES FOR HOW LONG
PEOPLE CAN ASK WHETHER THEY CAN
HAVE FOLLOW-UP
ROUNDS OF QUESTIONING. SO THE
SENATE PROVED MUCH MORE AMENABLE
THAN THE HOUSE COMMITTEES. WHICH
THE PRESIDENT HAS NOT FORGOTTEN,
IMPEACHED HIM LAST YEAR. AND THE
REASON WE'RE HEARING FROM THIS
MIX OF WITNESSES. THESE ARE THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE REALLY MOST
INVOLVED WITH THE EFFORT. BUT
THEY'RE ALSO IN KIND OF
APPOINTED POSITIONS. SO WE'RE
NOT HEARING FROM DEBORAH BIRX
TODAY.  BECAUSE SHE'S NOT IN
KIND OF AN OFFICIAL ROLE. SHE'S
BEEN APPOINTED AS THE LEADER OF
THE TASK FORCE. BUT THE HEAD.
CDC, THE HEAD OF THE FDA AND
THEN TONY FAUCI, WHO HAS BEEN AT
HIS JOB SINCE 1984, A
NONPARTISAN, NONPOLITICAL JOB.
BUT HE, ALL THREE ARE IN KIND OF
OFFICIAL APPOINTMENTS.
SO IT'S MUCH EASIER FOR CONGRESS
TO SUMMON THEM.
CONGRESS CONTROLS THE BUDGETS
FOR ALL THREE AGENCIES. SO ALL
THREE OF THESE GENTLEMEN, PLUS
THE TESTING SIDE, WHICH IS KIND
OF THE BIG QUESTION THAT
REPUBLICANS HAVE HAD AS WELL AS
DEMOCRATS.
SO THAT'S SORT OF HOW WE ENDED
UP WITH SORT OF THE MIX OF THOSE
FOUR.
>> YASMEEN.
HEARINGS ARE POLITICS.
WHAT WILL YOU BE LISTENING FOR
IN TERMS OF STANCE TODAY. AND
THE COMMITTEE TRYING TO GET
ANSWERS FROM THESE WITNESSES?
>> I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE
ESPECIALLY ARE EAGER TO HEAR
FROM DR. FAUCI, WHO YOU KNOW, IS
KNOWN TO NOT HOLD PUNCHES, TO BE
HONEST. HE'S BEEN PUBLICLY
CRITICAL OF THE ADMINISTRATION'S
RESPONSE BEFORE. WHICH SOMETIMES
HAS PUT HIM IN HOT WATER. YOU
KNOW, THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF SORT
OF VITRIOLE TOWARDS HIM. FOR HIS
BEING CONTRADICTORY AT? POINT. I
THINK A LOT OF MEMBERS ARE GOING
TO BE LOOK FOR A FAIR ASSESSMENT
FROM HIM AS FAR AS HOW THINGS
ARE GOING. I THINK YOU MENTIONED
EARLIER, THERE ARE GOING TO BE A
LOT OF QUESTIONS ABOUT TESTING.
THE PRESIDENT AND SEVERAL
MEMBERS OF HIS ADMINISTRATION
YESTERDAY, HELD A NEWS
CONFERENCE, WHERE NAY SORT OF
HERALDED HOW FAR THE U.S. IS
COMING ON TESTING.
THEY PUT UP A BUNCH OF CHARTS
AND METRICS. TRYING TO SHOW HOW
GREAT THE U.S. DOING ON TESTING.
BECAUSE FROM THE BEGINNING, IT
HAS BEEN A STORYLINE THAT HAS
BEEN VERY DIFFICULT FOR THE
ADMINISTRATION AND CLOUDED THEIR
RESPONSE. AND I THINK THERE IS
NO DOUBT THAT THE ADMINISTRATION
HAS GREATLY IMPROVED THEIR
TESTING CAPACITY. BUT I THINK
THE IMPORTANT THING IS THEY ARE
BEHIND THE CURVE.
AND QUESTIONS ABOUT THE U.S.
BEING ABLE TO TEST ABOUT 300,000
PEOPLE A DAY. WHETHER THAT'S
ENOUGH TO GET PEOPLE BACK TO
WORK. THE GENERAL CONSENSUS IS,
IT'S NOT. I THINK THERE WILL BE
QUESTIONS ABOUT YOU KNOW, IF THE
WHITE HOUSE IS HAVING CASES WITH
ALL THE PRECAUTIONS THAR TAKING,
THE TESTS THEY HAVE AVAILABLE.
AND MEMBERS STILL NEED TO
ISOLATE. AND THERE ARE STILL
CASES POPPING UP. TRUMP'S
PERSONAL VALET ALSO TESTED
POSITIVE. THEN WHY SHOULD
AMERICANS FEEL SAFE GOING BACK
TO WORK?
AND DR. FAUCI'S COMMENTS. I
THINK THERE WILL BE QUESTIONS AS
TO WHETHER SOME ARE REOPENING
TOO QUICKLY. AND WHETHER THE
COUNTRY ISN'T READY TO REOPEN.
AND I THINK THERE WILL BE A LOT
OF QUESTIONS ABOUT WHAT THE PLAN
IS. IF WE SEE A SURGE IN CASES
IN THE AREA. WHAT'S THE ROLE OF
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT? WHAT'S
THE ROLE OF THE WHITE HOUSE? ARE
THEY DOING ANYTHING TO PREPARE
FOR ANOTHER WAVE OF CASES IN THE
FALL. OR EVEN THE SUMMER, WITH
SOME OF THESE STATES PREMATURELY
OPEN. I'M SURE THERE WILL BE
POLITICAL GRANDSTANDING.
DEMOCRATS HAVEN'T HELD BACK. BUT
I THINK THERE ARE LEGITIMATE
QUESTIONS ABOUT WHAT THE ROLE OF
THE WHITE HOUSE AND THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT IS MOVING FORWARD ON
THE REOPENING, HOW YOU DO IT.
THERE'S STILL NOT A TON OF
CLARITY ON WHAT THE PLAN IS AND
HOW YOU'RE GOING TO RAPIDLY RAMP
UP TESTING CAPACITY TO GET
PEOPLE BACK TO WORK. I THINK ALL
OF THOSE WILL ARISE, LIKE YOU
SEE.
>> JAMES, YOUR DAILY 220 HAS
THIS HEADLINES. THE GOVERNORS
WHO RAISED TO RELAX SOCIAL
GUIDELINES RESTRICTIONS ARE
PAYING A NEW TOLL.
THIS WHOLE HEARING
IS ABOUT REOPENING. AND THERE'S
SO MANY QUESTIONS ABOUT HOW THE
FEDERAL GUIDELINES JUST DON'T
MATCH UP TO WHAT SOME GOVERNORS,
ESPECIALLY REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS,
ARE CHOOSING TO DO. WHERE DO THE
SENATORS FALL IN? TO HOW QUICKLY
THEIR GOVERNOR SHOULD DECIDE TO
BE MOVING FORWARD?
>> YEAH, LIBBY. OUR NEW POLL. WE
HAVE BEEN DOING WEEKLY POLLING.
AND THIS ONE IS A LARGE NATIONAL
POLL. AND IT SHOWS
OVERWHELMINGLY, AMERICANS STILL
THINK IT'S TOO SOON TO EASE A
LOT OF THESE RESTRICTIONS.
AND THE PARTISAN BREAKSTEP DOWN
IS ALMOST EXACTLY EVEN. LIKE
50%NESS THE TOP PRIORITY SHOULD
BE PUBLIC HEALTH, EVEN IF THAT
MEANS MORE CLOSURES. AND 49%
BELIEVE THAT THE PRIORITY SHOULD
BE REOPENING BUSINESSES.
I THINK THAT'S ABOUT WHERE YOU
SEE THE BREAKDOWN IN THE
REPUBLICAN CONFERENCE ON THE
SENATE SIDE. I THINK SOMEONE
LIKE LAMAR ALEXANDER IS GOING TO
AIR MORE ON THE SIDE OF PUBLIC
HEALTH.
AND THEN YOU HAVE SOME SENATORS
WHO I THINK ARE MUCH MORE KIND
OF RARING TO GO.
I THINK YOU SEE THAT EVEN MORE
AMONG CONSERVATIVES ON THE HOUSE
SIDE THAN THE SENATE SIDE. SO
THERE IS DEFINITELY MORE TENSION
IN OUR POLL, MORE THAN 90% OF
DEMOCRATS BELIEVE THAT THE
CLOSURES SHOULD CONTINUE.
AND THE PARTY HAS BEEN PRETTY
UNITED ON THAT. BUT FOR THE MOST
PART, AMERICANS, OUR POLLING
SHOWS ARE FOLLOWING THE CUES OF
ANTHONY FAUCI. NATIONAL POLL
LAST WEEK SHOWED THAT HIS
FAVORABILITY RATING WAS OVER 70%
NATIONALLY. AND PEOPLE TRUST
PEOPLE LIKE TONY FAUCI FAR MORE
THAN DONALD TRUMP WHEN IT COMES
TO PUBLIC HEALTH. AND I THINK
EVEN THOUGH WE KNOW THE
PRESIDENT HAS IGNORED SOME OF
THOSE GUIDELINES. I THINK FAUCI
HAS BEEN WILLING TO SAY THINGS
THAT PUT HIM AT ODDS WITH THE
ADMINISTRATION. ESPECIALLY EARLY
ON, HE GAVE INTERVIEWS THAT
ANNOYED PEOPLE IN THE WHITE
HOUSE. BUT HE'S ALSO DIPLOMATIC.
THAT'S HOW HE'S BEEN SINCE 1984.
AND I THINK YOU'LL SEE HIM AS
PUBLIC HEALTH OFFICIAL, EVEN
BEING WITH THE ADMINISTRATION.
EVEN IF HE KNOWS THE PRESIDENT
DOESN'T AGREE.
>> ONE OF THOSE THINGS IS DR.
ANTHONY FAUCI PUSHING BACK. AND
BEING POLITICALLY SAVVY. THIS
WAS OVER A MONTH AGO, EASTER
WEEKEND. AND THE COMMENTS THAT
HE MADE, GOT A LOT OF PUSHBACK
FROM TRUMP SUPPORTERS.
IN FACT, MANY TRUMP SUPPORTERS
CALLED FOR A "FIRE FAUCI"
CAMPAIGN.
TRUMP HIMSELF EVEN RETWEETED
FIRE FAUCI. LET'S LISTEN TO WHAT
DR. FAUCI SAID.
>> OBVIOUSLY YOU, COULD
LOGICALLY SAY, IF YOU HAD A
PROCESS THAT WAS ONGOING. AND
YOU STARTED MITIGATION EARLIER,
YOU COULD HAVE SAVED LIVES.
OBVIOUSLY NO ONE IS GOING TO
DENY.  THAT BUT WHAT GOES INTO
THOSE KIND OF DECISIONS IS
COMPLICATED. BUT YOU'RE RIGHT.
OBVIOUSLY, IF WE HAD, RIGHT FROM
THE VERY BEGINNING, SHUT
EVERYTHING DOWN, IT MAY HAVE
BEEN A LITTLE DIFFERENT. BUT
THERE WAS A LOT OF PUSHBACK
ABOUT SHUTTING THINGS DOWN BACK
THEN.
>> NOW, JUST ONE DAY LATER,
FAUCI ATTEMPTED TO RETRACT OR AT
LEAST CLARIFY HIS REMARKS. THIS
WAS AT THE WHITE HOUSE
CORONAVIRUS BRIEFING. LET'S
LISTEN.
>> I HAD AN INTERVIEW YESTERDAY
THAT I WAS ASKED A HYPOTHETICAL
QUESTION.
AND HYPE THET CAL QUESTIONS
SOMETIMES CAN GET YOU INTO SOME
DIFFICULTY.
BECAUSE WHAT WOULD HAVE OR COULD
HAVE.
THE FIRST AND ONLY TIME THAT DR.
BIRX AND I WENT IN AND FORMALLY
MADE A RECOMMENDATION TO THE
PRESIDENT TO ACTUALLY HAVE A,
QUOTE, SHUTDOWN IN THE SENSE OF
NOT REALLY SHUTDOWN. BUT TO
REALLY HAVE STRONG MITIGATION.
WE DISCUSSED IT. OBVIOUSLY THERE
WOULD BE CONCERN BY SOME THAT,
IN FACT, THAT MIGHT HAVE SOME
NEGATIVE CONSEQUENCES.
NONETHELESS.
THE PRESIDENT LISTENED TO THE
RECOMMENDATION.
AND WENT TO THE MITIGATION.
>> DR. FAUCI, JUST ONE MONTH
AGO. LET'S GO TO YASMEEN. WHY
WAS THERE A REAL PUSH BACK FROM
TRUMP'S SUPPORTERS. DR. FAUCI IS
JUST TALKING ABOUT THE TIME LINE
AND SAVING LIVES AND LOOKING
BACK AT WHEN DECISIONS WERE
MADE. WHY WAS THAT SO TOUCHY?
>> I THINK THIS PRESIDENT IS
VERY SENSE TIVE. THERE WAS
OBVIOUSLY A LOT OF CRITICISM
DOWNPLAYING THE VIRUS, PRESIDENT
PRESIDENT XI FOR HIS RESPONSE,
EVEN THOUGH WE KNOW OFFICIALS
WERE WARNING HIM AT THE TIME TO
TAKE A TOUGHER LINE IN WARNING
HOW SEVERE
IT WAS.
>> REGULARLY POINTS TO.
>> SIGNAL THAT HE WAS POINTING
THIS SERIOUSLY. I THINK THE
PUBLIC SPEAKS FOR THEMSELVES.
I THINK THEY ARE SENSITIVE TO
ANY INFORMATION THEY DIDN'T TAKE
SERIOUSLY. SO DR. FAUCI
COMMENTS, WHILE MAY BE TO
SOMEONE ELSE.
I THINK SO THE PRESIDENT AND
MANY SUPPORTERS TOOK THAT AS A
DIRECT CRITICISM OF PRESIDENT
TRUMP. AND IS THIS THAT HE
DIDN'T ACT QUICK ENOUGH.
THAT HE DIDN'T LISTEN TO
RECOMMENDATIONS OF SOCIAL
DISTANCING.
WHICH IS WHY THEY CAME TO THE
PRESS BRIEFING EVERY DAY.
MAYBE SOME PEOPLE HAD CONCERNS.
AND YOU'VE SEEN HIM DO THAT ON
SOME OFFICIALS WHO ARE NOT
STAYING ON THE MESSAGE HE WANTED
THEM TO STAY ON.
YOU HEARD THAT WHEN THEY SAID,
THE OUTBREAK IN THE FALL COULD
BE MUCH WORSE THAN WHAT WE'RE
EXPERIENCING NOW. HE WAS TROTTED
OUT TO THE NEXT BRIEFING THE
NEXT DAY. AND HAD HAD TO
CLARIFY. WHEN YOU SEE THIS, THEY
ARE OFTEN TRYING TO SPEAK TO THE
PUBLIC HEALTH SIDE OF THINGS.
SAYING, WE COULD HAVE DONE THIS
DIFFERENTLY OR MAYBE THIS COULD
HAVE BEEN DONE BETTER.
THIS IS NOT AN ADMINISTRATION
THAT TAKES KINDLY TO THAT. WE
KNOW AND IT'S BEEN REPORTED
SEVERAL TIMES, THERE IS HAS BEEN
A HUGE MESSAGE ON PUBLIC
RELATIONS, CRISIS RESPONSE IN
THIS PANDEMIC AND THE CRISIS
RESPONSE.
>> I'M SO GLAD YOU CAUGHT UP
WITH DR. REDFIELD. WE'LL HEAR
NOT ONLY FROM DR. FAUCI.
>> I THINK THERE ARE A NUMBER OF
DIFFERENT
TESTING AGENCIES. THE CDC HASN'T
HELD A BRIEFING SINCE MARCH 9th.
I THINK THERE AM BE QUESTIONS
ABOUT WHETHER THE CDC HAS BEEN
MUZZLED. HOW THEY'RE GOING TO
GET INFORMATION OUT TO PEOPLE
WHO NEED IT NOW. STATES AND
INDIVIDUALS ARE LOOKING FOR
GUIDANCE ABOUT HOW TO REOPEN,
WHEN IT'S SAFE TO START GOING
OUT. WHEN CAN PEOPLE START
RESUMING A BIT MORE OF THEIR
NORMAL LIVES. WHAT DOES THE NEW
NORMALITY LOOK LIKE? I THINK
THERE WILL BE A LOT OF QUESTIONS
ABOUT THAT. I THINK FOR DR.
HAHN, THE FTA COMMISSIONER,
YOU'VE SEEN A NUMBER OF MEMBERS
OF CONGRESS PUT OUT STATEMENTS
AND WARNINGS AND CRITICISMS OF
HOW THE FDA HAS HANDLED THESE
ANTIBODY TESTS, WHICH
IT'S NOT JUST DR. FAUCI. THERE
ARE A NUMBER OF HEALTH CONCERNS
THAT I THINK MEMBERS ARE GOING
TO MOVE FORWARD TO.
WE HAVE NOT REALLY HAD A DECLINE
IN CASES.
I THINK THERE ARE QUESTION ABOUT
MEDICAL COUNT MEASURES, HOW TO
MOVE FORWARD, WHAT IS SAFE, WHAT
IS NOT. AND THESE OFFICIALS ARE
EQUIPPED TO ANSWER THAT.
>> JAMES IF YOU WERE ON THIS
COMMITTEE HEARING, WHAT WOULD
YOU BE ASKING OF THESE
TESTIFYING?
>> I THINK WHAT YASMEEN
REPORTED.
IT IDENTIFIED AREAS WE'RE SEEING
SPIKES. AND SOME OF THOSE AREAS
ARE INSTATES THAT THESE SENATORS
REPRESENT. IF YOU TAKE THE NEW
YORK NUMBERS OUT OF THE, KIND OF
THE NATIONAL FIGURES, WE'RE
SEEING INCREASES IN A LOT OF
PLACES. MY HOME STATE OF
MINNESOTA HAS SEEN A BIG
INCREASE WEEK OVER WEEK.
SO I THINK THE SENATORS FROM
SOME OF THOSE PLACES ARE GOING
TO BE VERY KEYED IN ON WHAT
THEIR GOVERNOR SHOULD BE DOING.
I DO THINK YOU'LL SEE SOME POINT
SCORING. BUT I THINK THAT
DEMOCRATS WILL TRY HARD NOT TO
LOOK LIKE THEY'RE JUST SCORING
POINTS FOR THE SAKE OF SCORING
POINTS. BECAUSE SOMEONE LIKE
DOCTORS AND MEDICAL
PROFESSIONALS WHO ARE HELD IN
HIGH REGARD.
THE ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS AS
WE THINK OF THEM.
SO THAT, I THINK, WILL MAKE THE
TONE A LOT MORE RESPECTFUL.
YOU KNOW, IF I WAS A SENATOR, I
WOULD BE WORRIED ABOUT THE BIG
INDUSTRIES
IN MY STATE. IS THIS IS THE
BIGGEST HEALTH CRISIS
CRISIS SINCE 1983.
WHITE-COLLARED PROFESSIONALS ARE
GETTING HAMMERED. WE HAVE A
STORY ON THE TOLLIT'S TAKING ON
FARMERS. THERE ARE A LOT OF
PEOPLE WHO REPRESENT HEAVILY
RURAL AGRICULTURAL STATES.
THEY'RE GOING TO BE CONCERNED
ABOUT TRYING TO -- THEIR STATES.
I THINK YOU'LL SEE A LOT OF THAT
LOCALISM AND PAROCHIALISM IN
SOME WAYS.
>> THIS HEARING IS SCHEDULED TO
GET UNDER WAY IN 10 MINUTES.
WE'LL BRING THAT TO YOU LIVE AND
UNINTERRUPTED.
OUR COLLEAGUE RHONDA COLVIN IS
ON CAPITOL HILL. AND RHONDA, I'D
LOVE TO HEAR FROM YOU HOW
DIFFERENT THIS MOMENT AND HOW
THIS NEW NORMAL IT IMPACTING
WHAT YOU'RE SEEING AND FEELING
ON THE HILL.
>> I CAN TELL YOU THAT IT IS FAR
DIFFERENT FROM WHAT I'VE
EXPERIENCED ON THE HILL.
I HAVE NEVER HEARD IT THIS
QUIET.
I'M IN THE RUSSELL ROTUNDA.
USUALLY A LOT OF MEDIA. WE STAND
HERE. WE GIVE LIVE REPORTS. WE
DO INTERVIEWS WITH MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS. AND NONE OF THAT IS
REALLY HAPPENING RIGHT NOW. IT'S
REALLY INTERESTING TO SEE. WHEN
WE WERE LAST HERE. MOST OF WHAT
WE WERE COVERING WAS THE
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL. IT WAS
CERTAINLY SHOULDER TO SHOULDER.
FROM WHAT I'VE SEEN THIS
MORNING. JUST A HANDFUL OF
STAFFERS ARE WALKING THROUGH THE
HALLWAY. I'M HEARING MY VOICE
ECHO AT TIMES WHEN I'M SPEAKING
TO YOU. BECAUSE IT'S THAT QUIET
HERE. THAT IS PART OF A NEW
NORMAL. I THINK THE HILL IS
STILL TRYING TO FIGURE ITSELF
OUT.
THIS HAS NOT ALLOWED THE HOUSE
TO COME BACK. HE HAS NOT GIVEN
THEM THE GO AHEAD THAT HE CAN
RETURN BACK TO D.C. SO THAT ALSO
HAS REDUCED FOOT TRAFFIC ON THE
HILL. THEY MAY BE RETURNING
FRIDAY. BUT THINGS ARE A LITTLE
UP IN THE AIR. IT'S INTERESTING
THAT SUCH A HIGH-PROFILE
HEARING, SUCH AN HISTORIC
HEARING, IS TAKING PLACE DURING
THIS TIME WHEN A LOT OF US AT
MEDIA ARE TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
THE BEST WAY TO COVER IT, WITH
KEEPING SAFETY IN MIND. IT'S
CERTAINLY A VERY, VERY DIFFERENT
DYNAMIC THAN WHAT WE'VE
EXPERIENCED BEFORE ON THE HILL.
>> THANKS SO MUCH, RHONDA.
>>> LET'S GO TO YASMEEN RIGHT
NOW. YOU BROUGHT UP AN IMPORTANT
POINT. OF HOW THE INDIVIDUALS
TESTIFYING TODAY ARE VIEWED. ARE
THEY POLITICAL IN NATURE?
DR. FAUCI HAS SERVED IN THIS
POSITION FOR DECADES.
THROUGH ADMINISTRATIONS OF BOTH
POLITICAL STRIPES. SO I'M
WONDERING IF ONE OF THE GOALS
DEMOCRATS HAVE IS TO TRY TO SHOW
DAYLIGHT, BETWEEN WHAT THESE
EXPERTS BELIEVE AND WHAT THE
ADMINISTRATION IS SAYING OR WHAT
THE PRESIDENT HIMSELF IS SAYING.
SO IF THEY CAN SHOW A DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN A RECOMMENDATION FROM
THE HEAD OF THE CDC OR FROM DR.
FAUCI AND SHOW THAT IT CONTRASTS
OR IS, YOU KNOW, CONTRADICTORY
FROM WHAT WE'VE HEARD FROM THE
PRESIDENT'S OWN MOUTH? IS THAT A
WAY THEY CAN KIND OF TRY TO MOVE
THEIR ARGUMENTS FORWARD?
>> I THINK THAT'S A REALLY GOOD
POINT. I THINK THESE ARE
DOCTORS, PUBLIC HEALTHCARE
PROFESSIONALS AM. THEY'RE THE
PROFESSIONAL ADVISERS, TRYING TO
ADVISE THE TASK FORCE. OBVIOUSLY
WHEN THE PRESIDENT SPEAKS.
A LOT OF IT IS POLITICAL. WE
KNOW
IT'S FOCUSED ON THE ELECTION AND
WANTING TO PAINT THE
ADMINISTRATION IN THE BEST
POSSIBLE LIGHT. I THINK A LOT OF
MEMBERS TODAY ARE GOING TO LOOK
FOR THE PUBLIC HEALTH
PERSPECTIVE ON HOW THE COUNTRY
IS DOING. HOW SAFE OR NOT SAFE
IT IS TO GET BACK TO WORK AND
REOPEN. AND GIVEN WHAT THE DATA
CLEARLY SHOWS, LIKE JAMES
MENTIONED. YOU KNOW, SPIKES IN
SOME CASES, BEGINNING TO SHOW
UP.
YOU KNOW, THIS PLATEAU.
THERE WAS A LOT OF TALK ABOUT
FLATTENING THE THE CURVE.
THE HEALTH SYSTEM GOT
OVERWHELMED TO THE POINT THAT A
LOT OF PEOPLE FEARED IT WOULD.
YOU DIDN'T HAVE SOME PEOPLE
DYING IN THE STREETS. AND I
THINK SOME MEMBERS OF THE
ADMINISTRATION POINT THAT THAT
AS EVIDENCE THAT SOCIAL
DISTANCING AND STRINGENT
MITIGATION EFFORTS WORKED. BUT I
THINK THERE WERE QUESTIONS THAT
WE DIDN'T HAVE THE DOWN FLOW,
WHERE YOU SEE THE CASES START TO
GO DOWN. WHETHER WE ARE READY TO
REOPEN. OR WHETHER THE KRIESHZ
IS GOING TO BE SORT OF ENDEMIC
IN THE U.S. AND WHAT YOU DO AND
HOW YOU DEAL WITH THAT. UNTIL
THERE IS A VACCINE THAT IS
WIDELY AVAILABLE. I THINK
THEY'RE GOING TO LOOK TO SEE.
THEY'RE WILLING TO GIVE SORT OF
A BLUNT AND HONEST PUBLIC HEALTH
ASSESSMENT. EVEN IF IT'S NOT
NECESSARILY WHAT THE PRESIDENT
AND SOME OF HIS POLITICAL
ADVISERS WOULD LIKE. THEY SAY
THEY WANT TO SEE THE COUNTRY
ROARING BACK. BUT I THINK A LOT
OF EXPERTS HAVE SAID,
I THINK SOME MEMBERS WILL PRESS
THE ADMINISTRATION THEY WILLING
TO SAY THAT HONESTLY. AND EVEN
IF IT'S NOT WHAT THE POLITICAL
ADVISERS HAVE HERE.
>> THE HEAD OF THIS COMMITTEE
WILL BE JOINING REMOTELY. HE
SPOKE TO CHUCK TODD. AND HE
FOCUSED ON THE COST THIS IS ALL
TAKING. BUT HE EMPHASIZED THAT
SOLUTION HE HAS IS TESTING AND
CONTRACT TRACING.
>> THERE IS NOT ENOUGH MONEY TO
HELP EVERYBODY HURT WHEN YOU
SHUT DOWN THE GOVERNMENT. SO THE
ONLY SOLUTION IS TEST TREAT,
ISOLATE.
TREATMENT AND VACCINES. WE HAVE
TO OPEN UP THE ECONOMY. HAVE TO
DO IT CAREFULLY. AND HAVE TO LET
PEOPLE EARN A LIVING. I DON'T
SEE US BEING ABLE TO APPROPRIATE
MUCH MORE
MONEY TO HELP TO HELP PROVIDE A
COUNT TO THAT.
>> YOU CAN SEE THE HEARING ROOM
RIGHT THERE.
SUCH AN UNUSUAL APPEARANCE WITH
HAND SANITIZER AND WIPES AND ALL
THE SEATS SPREAD SO FAR APART.
JUST REALLY REMARKABLE AND
TELLING ABOUT THIS MOMENT.
PHOTOGRAPHERS, WEARING MASKS.
KEEPING THEIR DISTANCE.
JAMES, YOU KNOW, THE WHOLE POINT
OF THIS HEARING IS REOPENING THE
ECONOMY.
SO FOR SMNL LIKE LAMAR
ALEXANDER, WHO YOU POINTED OUT,
CAN BE LOYAL TO THE
ADMINISTRATION, BUT ALSO HAS
SOME INDEPENDENCE AND ABLE TO
SPEAK OUT. YOU KNOW, WHAT SORT
OF ISSUES DO REPUBLICANS NEED TO
GET HERE TODAY, IN TERMS OF
SOLUTIONS AND NEXT STEPS
FORWARD?
>> YEAH. I THINK THAT THAT'S
KIND OF THE GETTING -- WHAT
YOU'LL SEE REPUBLICANS DO, YOU
KNOW, I THINK DAYLIGHT IS WHAT
DEMOCRATS ARE GOING TO TRY TO
ESTABLISH. AND I THINK
REPUBLICANS ARE GOING TO TRY TO
GET THESE KIND OF PUBLIC HEALTH
FOLKS TO TALK ABOUT THE NEED TO
BALANCE THE TWO? YOU KNOW, THAT
YOU KIND OF HAVE TO. WHAT'S
REALISTIC. WHICH IS SORT OF WHAT
WE JUST HEARD IN THAT CLIP? WHAT
CAN ACTUALLY BE ACHIEVED ON
TESTING? WHO IS GOING TO GET
PRIORITY? WHAT IS ACTUALLY
ACHIEVABLE ON CONTRACT TRACING.
AND KIND OF, THEY'RE GOING TO BE
VERY FOCUSED ON BALANCE. AND
THAT IS ONE OF THE CHALLENGES
THE PRESIDENT HAS. HE HAS
ECONOMIC PEOPLE IN HIS ORBIT. A
LOT OF PEOPLE IN THE VICE
PRESIDENT'S OFFICE, WHO ARE VERY
STRONG ON THE SIDE OF REOPENING,
AND THEN YOU HAVE THE PUBLIC
HEALTH FOLKS. AND THEY'RE FOCUS
IS VERY MUCH ON THE PUBLIC
HEALTH SIDE OF THINGS.
AND THEY'RE NOT AS WORRIED. I'VE
HEARD WHITE HOUSE PEOPLE
COMPLAIN ABOUT THE CDC DIRECTOR,
SELF QUARANTINING FOR 14 DAYS
BECAUSE AS FAR AS THEY'RE
CONCERNED AT A LOW RISK EXPOSURE
TO WHITE HOUSE STAFFER WHO
TESTED POSITIVE. SO THERE'S SORT
OF A FEELING IN THE WHITE HOUSE
THAT SOME OF THESE FOLKS ARE TOO
STRONG ON WORRYING ABOUT PUBLIC
HEALTH AND NOT WORRIED ENOUGH
ABOUT THE ECONOMY. BUT FRANKLY,
THAT'S THEIR JOB.
AND SO I THINK YOU'LL SEE
PRESENTS TRY TO LOOK AT WHERE DO
WE DRAW THE LINE? HOW DO WE
BALANCE IT? WHAT IS REALISTIC?
ESPECIALLY CONSIDERING THAT IT'S
ANY TIME SOON. I THINK YOU'LL
HEAR A VERY CAUTIOUS TONE AS
WELL.
>> WE JUST SAW SOME OF THE
SENATORS GATHERED.
IT'S INCREDIBLE TO SEE THIS PLAY
OUT.
>> YASMEEN, WHAT IS THE LATEST
ON SORT OF THE MASK POLICY AND
SAFETY POLICY IN THE WHITE
HOUSE.
>> SO OUR COLLEAGUES ARE
REPORTING YESTERDAY THAT
EVERYONE NEEDS TO WEAR A MASK.
AT THE BRIEFING YESTERDAY,
PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS ASKED IF HE
WAS THE ONE WHO MANDATED THIS.
AND HE SAID HE WAS. BUT HE WAS
NOT WEARING A MASK. AND OUR
COLLEAGUES REPORTED THAT THE
POLICY WILL NOT NECESSARILY
APPLY TO HIM. WHEN THE PRESIDENT
WAS ASKED WHY HE IS NOT WEARING
A MASK. HE SAID NO ONE GETS
CLOSE ENOUGH TO HIM AND HE'S FAR
ENOUGH APART FROM EVERYONE SO HE
DOESN'T NEED ONE.
>> THERE THIS THERE IS A POLICY
IN PUBLIC. WHEN VICE PRESIDENT
MIKE PENCE.
HE DIDN'T WEAR A MASK, EVEN
THOUGH HE WAS IN A HEALTHCARE
FACILITY.
SO THIS GUIDANCE FROM THE CDC
HAS BEEN OUT FOR A WHILE.
THAT EVERYONE WEAR FACE
COVERINGS IN PUBLIC. BUT WE
HAVEN'T REALLY SEEN IT
IMPLEMENTED BY MEMBERS OF THE
ADMINISTRATION.
SEVERAL MEMBERS, CABINET
SECRETARIES, TOP OFFICIALS, YOU
KNOW, WEARING MASKS AT THE
BRIEFING. BUT THE PRESIDENT
STILL HAS BEEN RELUCTANT TO. I
DON'T KNOW IF THAT WILL CHANGE.
BUT IT SORT OF UNDERCUTS THE
MESSAGE AND THE RECOMMENDATIONS
A LITTLE BIT, WHEN YOU DON'T SEE
THAT THE LEADERS OF THE COUNTRY
FOLLOWING THE ADVICE THEY'RE
GIVING EVERY OTHER AMERICAN.
>> YOU CAN SEE THERE, THE VIDEO
MONITOR AS NOT ONLY GUESTS BUT
ALSO COMMUNITY MEMBERS JOIN IN
REMOTELY. WE'VE SEEN SENATOR
COLLINS OF MAINE. OTHER SENATORS
WE'VE SEEN INCLUDE TIM KAINE,
DEMOCRAT OF VIRGINIA, WHO WAS
JUST TALKING A MOMENT AGO TO
SENATOR BURKE, REPUBLICAN OF
NORTH CAROLINA. ALSO
SAW KELLY LAWFULLER, ALL OF
THOSE MEMBERS APPEARING IN
PERSON, USING THE MASKS THAT
THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO YOU CAN SEE
DR. FAUCI THERE.
SO THEY CAN TESTIFY REMOTELY.
JAMES, THERE'S SO MUCH OF A
QUESTION OF JUST WHAT HAPPENS
NEXT.
AND WHAT THE ROLE OF CONGRESS IS
IN THIS MOMENT.
YOU KNOW, WE HEARD IN THAT
ALEXANDER TAPE. RELUCTANCE BY
THE CHAIRMAN TO KEEP SPENDING
MONEY. AND THERE ARE SO MANY
PEOPLE HURTING RIGHT NOW.
BECAUSE JOBS HAVE BEEN LOST. OR
BECAUSE THEY'RE REGULAR SOURCES
OF INCOME HAVE DRIED UP.
SO HOW DO THESE SENATORS FACE
THAT QUESTION OF THE COST AND
THE PAY FOR?
>> YEAH. WELL, THAT'S -- YOU
KNOW, FOR SOMEONE LIKE KELLY
LAWFULLER WHO HAS A PRIMARY
CHALLENGE IN GEORGIA, WAS
APPOINTED, HAS BEEN UNDER FIRE
FOR SELLING STOCKS AFTER SHE GOT
A BRIEFING ABOUT HOW BAD THIS
WAS GOING TO BE, BEFORE THE
PUBLIC SORT OF REALIZED. IT'S A
DIFFICULT BALANCING ACT. THEY
HAVE TO GO OUT OF THEIR WAY TO
MAKE SURE THEY SHOW EMPATHY. BUT
ALSO MAKE CLEAR THERE'S NOT A
BLANK CHECK. AND DEMOCRATS HAVE
TO BE CAUTIOUS ABOUT THAT, TOO.
YOU KNOW, THE NATIONAL DEBT WAS
ALREADY OUT OF CONTROL BEFORE.
AND YOU KNOW, NOW WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT MASSIVE DISRUPTIONS.
AND I THINK, YOU KNOW, CONTRACT
TRACING IN PARTICULAR IS
ESPECIALLY EXPENSIVE. IT'S VERY
INVOLVED. IT'S VERY HUMAN
INTENSIVE, EVEN WHEN YOU USE THE
BEST ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
TECHNOLOGY.
>> JAMES, I'M GOING TO CUT YOU
OFF. WE'RE GETTING STARTED,
CHAIRMAN LAMAR ALEXANDER IS
SPEAKING. LET'S GO TO THIS NOW.
>> INDIVIDUALS IN THE HEARING
ROOM, ARE AT LEAST 6 FEET APART.
REPRESENTATIVES OF THE PRESS ARE
WORKING AS A POOL TO RELAY
OBSERVATION TO COLLEAGUES. THE
HEARING MAY BE WATCHED ONLINE.
AND AN UNEDITED RECORDING WILL
BE AVAILABLE ON THE COMMITTEE'S
WEBSITE.
WITNESSES ARE PARTICIPATING IN
VIDEO CONFERENCES IN A ONE-TIME
EXCEPTION. SOME SENATORS,
INCLUDING THE CHAIRMAN, ARE
PARTICIPATING BY VIDEO
CONFERENCE.
SENATORS, WE HAVE BEEN ADVISED,
MAY REMOVE THEIR MASKS, TALK
INTO THE MICROPHONE WHEN THEY'RE
IN THE HEARING ROOM, AS WE'RE 6
FEET APART. I'M GRATEFUL TO
THE PRESS GALLERY, ARCHITECTURAL
CAPITAL.
COMMITTEE POLICE. ALL FOR THEIR
HARD WORK TO KEEP US SAFE. AT
OUR HEARING LAST THURSDAY, I
SAID IF ALL ROADS BACK TO WORK
AND BACK TO SCHOOL, RUN THROUGH
TESTING.
AND THAT WHAT OUR COUNTRY HAS
DONE SO FAR ON TESTING IS
IMPRESSIVE, BUT NOT NEARLY
ENOUGH.
OVER THE WEEKEND, SENATOR
SCHUMER, THE DEMOCRATIC LEADER
WAS NICE ENOUGH TO PUT OUT A
TWEET, QUOTING HALF OF WHAT I
SAID. HE LEFT OUT THE OTHER
HALF, THE IMPRESSIVE PART.
LET ME SAY WHAT I MEANT BY THAT.
WHEN I SAID, IMPRESSIVE. I MEANT
THAT ACCORDING TO A JOHNS
HOPKINS UNIVERSITY STUDY, THE
UNITED STATES HAS TESTED OVER 9
MILLION AMERICANS FOR COVID-19.
THAT'S TWICE AS MANY AS ANY
OTHER COUNTRY.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT CHINA HAS
DONE.
AND IT'S MORE PER CAPITA THAN
MOST COUNTRIES, INCLUDING SOUTH
KOREA, WHICH MANY MEMBERS OF OUR
COMMITTEE HAD CITED AS AN
EXAMPLE OF A COUNTRY THAT HAD
TESTED WELL. ACCORDING TO DR.
DEBORAH BIRX, THE UNITED STATES
WAS DOUBLE TESTING IN THE MONTH
OF MAY. WHICH WAS ABOUT 10
MILLION TESTS CONDUCTED. HERE'S
WHAT I MEAN BY IMPRESSIVE HERE
IN TENNESSEE WHERE I AM TODAY.
FIRST, ANYONE WHO IS SICK, FIRST
RESPONDER, HEALTHCARE WORKER CAN
GET TESTED. OUR GOVERNOR BILL
LEE IS ALSO TESTING EVERY
PRISONER, EVERY RESIDENT STAFF
MEMBER IN A NURSING HOME,
WEEKEND -- DRIVE THROUGH
TESTING. SUBJECT TESTING TO
LOW-INCOME COMMUNITIES. AND CAN
GET A FREE TEST AT THE LOCAL
PUBLIC HEALTH DEPARTMENT. THE
GOVERNOR'S SLOGAN IS, IF IN
DOUBT, GET A TEST.
SENT THIS TO OTHERS.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS HELPING
HIM MAKE SURE THAT HE HAS ENOUGH
SUPPLIES, IN CASE HE HAS TROUBLE
GETTING THEM THROUGH THE LABS
AND THE OTHER COMMERCIAL
SOURCES.
AS A RESULT, OUR STATE HAS
TESTED ABOUT 4% OF THE
POPULATION.
GOVERNOR HOPES TO INCREASE THAT
BY 7% IN MAY.
THAT'S ONE OF THE BEST IN THE
COUNTRY.
THIS IMPRESSIVE LEVEL OF TESTING
IS SUFFICIENT, WE BELIEVE.
TO BEGIN PHASE 1 OF GOING BACK
TO WORK.
BUT AS I SAID, LAST WEEK, IT'S
NOT NEARLY ENOUGH TO PROVIDE
CONFIDENCE TO 31,000 STUDENTS
AND FACULTY MEMBERS, WHO WE HOPE
WILL SHOW UP AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF TENNESSEE CAMPUS IN AUGUST,
WHEN SCHOOL STARTS.
LAST WEEK, I TALKED WITH U.T.
KNOXVILLE CHANCELLOR, DON D.
PLOWMAN ABOUT THAT. WE SAID,
WHAT WOULD PERSUADE THOSE 31,000
STUDENTS, AS WELL AS THE 50
MILLION K THROUGH 12 STUDENTS IN
THE COUNTRY? AND THE OTHER 5,000
UNIVERSITY STUDENTS. WHAT WILL
PERSUADE THEM TO GO BACK TO
CAMPUS IN AUGUST. THAT'S WHERE
THE NEW SHARK TANK COMES IN. DR.
COLLINS AT THE
NATIONALINSTITUTES OF HEALTH,
CALL ITS RAD X. WE HAD OUR HEAR
BEING THAT ON THURSDAY. A REALLY
REMARKABLE SCIENTIFIC EXERCISE.
TAKE A FEW EARLY-STAGE CONCEPTS
THAT ARE SWIMMING AROUND IN WHAT
WE CALL THAT COMPETITIVE SHARK
TANK. AND SEE IF DR. COLLINS AND
HIS ASSOCIATES CAN FIND A NEW
NEW TECHNOLOGIES TO CREATE
MILLIONS OF NEW TESTS THAT WILL
SCALE UP RAPIDLY AND MAKE IT
MORE LIKELY THAT STUDENTS WILL
GO BACK TO SCHOOL IN AUGUST.
FOR EXAMPLE, THE FDA AUTHORIZED
LAST WEEK, ITS FIRST DIAGNOSTIC
TEST, USING SALIVA, THAT A
PERSON PROVIDES AT HOME, INSTEAD
OF A NOSE SWAB OR BLOOD. IT
AUTHORIZED ITS FIRST ANTIGEN
TEST. WE'RE HEARING A LOT ABOUT
THOSE. LIKE THE
ANOTHER PROPOSAL NOT YET APPROVE
IS TO PUT A LOLLIPOP IN YOUR
MOUTH WITH A SPONGE. TAKE A
PHOTO.
THOUSANDS OF THOSE SAMPLES
OVERNIGHT. THAT SAME PROCESS
COULD OCCUR IN A MIDDLE SCHOOL.
COULD OCCUR AT A FACTORY. OF
COURSE, ANYONE TESTING NEGATIVE,
ONE DAY CAN TEST POSITIVE THE
NEXT.
BUT SUCH WIDESPREAD SCREENING OF
ENTIRE CAMPUSES, SCHOOLS OR
PLACES OF WORK, WILL HELP
IDENTIFY THOSE WHO ARE SICK.
THOSE DOWN HERE EXPOSED. THAT IN
TURN SHOULD HELP PERSUADE THE
REST OF US GOING BACK TO SCHOOL
AND BACK TO WORK. IN ADDITION TO
MORE TESTING, I EXPECT DR. FAUCI
TO TALK TO US ABOUT ADDITIONAL
TREATMENTS THAT WILL BE ABLE TO
REDUCE THE RISK OF DEATH AND THE
ADMINISTRATION'S PLAN TO DO
SOMETHING THAT OUR COUNTRY HAS
NEVER DONE BEFORE, WHICH IS TO
START MANUFACTURING A VACCINE
BEFORE IT ACTUALLY IS PROVEN TO
WORK, IN ORDER TO SPEED UP THE
WORK, IN CASE IT DOES WORK.
THOSE VACCINES, THOSE TREATMENTS
ARE THE ULTIMATE SOLUTION. BUT
UNTIL WE HAVE THEM, ALL ROADS
BACK TO WORK AND SCHOOL GO
THROUGH TESTING. THE MORE TESTS
WE CONDUCT, THE BETTER WE CAN
IDENTIFY THOSE WHO ARE SICK AND
EXPOSED AND WE CAN QUARANTINE
THE SICK AND EXPOSED, INSTEAD OF
TRYING TO QUARANTINE THE WHOLE
COUNTRY. IN MY OPINION, THIS
REQUIRES MILLIONS OF NEW TESTS,
MANY FROM NEW TECHNOLOGIES. SOME
OF THESE WILL FAIL, BUT WE ONLY
NEED A FEW SUCCESSES TO GET
WHERE WE WANT TO GO.
THAT'S WHY I SAID, ON THURSDAY,
THAT WHAT OUR COUNTRY HAS DONE
SO FAR IN TESTING IS IMPRESSIVE.
BUT NOT NEARLY ENOUGH.
FIRST, SQUEEZE ALL THE TESTS WE
CAN OUT
OF CURRENT TECHNOLOGIES. NEXT
TRY TO FIND NEW TECHNOLOGIES TO
TRY TO CONTAIN THE DISEASE TO
HELP US GO BACK TO WORK. ONE
OTHER THING. THIS IS A
BIPARTISAN HEARING EXAMINING HOW
WELL WE'RE EQUIPPED TO GO SAFELY
BACK TO WORK AND SCHOOL AND
DETERMINE WHAT ELSE WE NEED TO
DO IN THE UNITED STATES SENATE.
SUCH AN EXERCISE SOMETIMES
ENCOURAGES FINGER-POINTING.
BEFORE WE SPEND TOO MUCH TIME
FINGER POINTING. I'D LIKE TO
SUGGEST THAT ALMOST ALL OF US,
THE UNITED STATES AND ALMOST
EVERY COUNTRY, SO FAR AS I CAN
TELL, UNDERESTIMATED THIS VIRUS.
UNDERESTIMATED HOW CONTAGIOUS IT
WOULD BE.
UNDERESTIMATED HOW IT CAN TRAVEL
SILENTLY, IN PEOPLE WITHOUT
SYMPTOMS TO INFECT OTHER PEOPLE.
HOW IT CAN BE ESPECIALLY DEADLY
FOR CERTAIN SEGMENTS OF OUR
POPULATION. THE ELDERLY.
THOSE WITH PREEXISTING
CONDITIONS.
THE NORDIC POPULATION. LET ME GO
BACK TO THE MARCH 3rd HEARING
THAT WE HAD IN OUR COMMITTEE ON
CORONAVIRUS.
SIX WEEKS, AFTER THE FIRST CASE
WAS DISCOVERED IN THE UNITED
STATES, A DAY WHEN ONLY TWO
DEATHS WERE REPORTED IN THIS
COUNTRY.
I READ AT THAT HEARING, THIS
PARAGRAPH FROM THE "NEW YORK
TIMES," TWO DAYS EARLIER ON
MARCH 1st. THEY REPORTED THIS.
MUCH ABOUT THE CORONAVIRUS
REMAINS UNCLEAR, "THE TIMES"
REPORTED. AND IT'S FAR FROM
CERTAIN.
THIS IS MARCH 3rd.
THAT -- MARCH 1. THAT THE
OUTBREAK WILL REACH SEVERE
PROPORTIONS IN THE UNITED STATES
OR AFFECT MANY REGIONS AT ONCE.
WITH ITS TOP-NOTCH SCIENTISTS,
MODERN HOSPITALS AND SPRAWLING
PUBLIC HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE,
MOST EXPERTS AGREE, UNITED
STATES IS AMONG THE COUNTRY'S
BEST PREPARED TO PREVENT OR
MANAGE SUCH AN EPIDEMIC.
NEW YORK TIMES ON MARCH 1.
A LOT OF EFFORT HAS GONE INTO
TRYING TO MAKE OUR COUNTRY WELL
PREPARED. OVER THE LAST 20
YEARS, FOUR PRESIDENT, SEVERAL
CONGRESSES, IN RESPONSE TO 9/11,
BIRD FLU, KATRINA, EBOLA, H1N1,
MERS.
PASSED NINE MAJOR LAWS TO TRY TO
HELP GET THIS COUNTRY READY FOR
WHAT WE'RE GOING THROUGH TODAY.
THESE LAWS STOOD
UP TO STRATEGIC STOCKPILES.
SECRETARY FOR PREPAREDNESS.
CREATED INCENTIVES FOR THE
DEVELOPMENTS OF VACCINES.
AND MEDICINES THAT WE'RE USING
TODAY.
STRENGTHEN THE CENTERS FOR
DISEASE CONTROL.
THANKS TO THE LEADERSHIP OF
SENATOR BLUNT AND SENATOR MURRAY
FOR FIVE STRAIGHT YEARS. WE'VE
SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASED FUNDING
FOR NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF
HEALTH. ALL OF THIS WAS PART OF
A SHARED GOAL.
DEMOCRATS, REPUBLICANS, TO TRY
TO GET READY FOR WHAT WE'RE
GOING THROUGH TODAY. WHETHER IT
WAS KNOWN, LIKE ANTHRAX OR
UNKNOWN LIKE COVID-19. BUT
DESPITE ALL OF THAT EFFORT, EVEN
THE EXPERTS UNDERESTIMATED
COVID-19.
THIS HEARING IS ABOUT HOW WE
IMPROVE OUR RESPONSE TO THIS
VIRUS AS WELL AS THE NEXT.
DURING THE OVERSIGHT HERE I ALSO
INTEND TO FOCUS ON, AS I SAID,
THE NEXT PANDEMIC, WHICH WE KNOW
IS COMING. WHAT CAN WE LEARN
FROM THIS ONE TO BE READY FOR
THE NEXT ONE?
CAN WE? WHAT CAN WE LEARN FROM
THE FAST TRACKING OF VACCINES
AND TREATMENTS THAT WE'RE ABOUT
TO HEAR ABOUT THAT WILL MAKE IT
EVEN FASTER THE NEXT TIME.
HOW CAN WE KEEP HOSPITALS IN
STATES FROM SELLING OFF
PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT, WHEN THEIR
BUDGET GETS TIGHT. HOW CAN WE
MAKE SURE CONGRESS DOES OUR
SHARE FOR THE FUNDING. HOW CAN
WE PROVIDE ENOUGH HOSPITAL BEDS
WITHOUT CANCELING ENOUGH AND
BANKRUPTCYING HOSPITALS.
COORDINATE SUPPLY LINES.
TO MAKE SURE THEY GET TO WHERE
THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO GO WHEN
THEY'RE SUPPOSE TO GO.
WHAT'S THE WAY TO MANAGE THE
STOCKPILE. MY PREACHER ONCE
SAID, I'M NOT WORRIED ABOUT WHAT
YOU DO ON SUNDAY. IT'S THE REST
OF THE WEEK THAT CONCERNS ME.
I'M AFRAID THAT DURING THE REST
OF THE WEEK, BETWEEN PANDEMICS,
WE RELAX OUR FOCUS ON
PREPAREDNESS.
WE BECOME PREOCCUPIED WITH OTHER
IMPORTANT THINGS. OUR COLLECTIVE
MEMORY IS SHORT. JUST THREE
MONTHS AGO, THIS COUNTRY WAS
PREOCCUPIED WITH IMPEACHING A
PRESIDENT. NOW THAT SEEMS LIKE
ANCIENT ROMAN HISTORY.
NOW, WHILE THIS CRISIS HAS OUR
FULL ATTENTION, I BELIEVE WE
SHOULD PUT INTO LAW THIS YEAR
WHATEVER IMPROVEMENTS NEED TO BE
MADE TO BE WELL PREPARED FOR THE
NEXT PANDEMIC.
IF THERE IS TO BE FINGER
POINTING, I HOPE THEY'RE POINTED
IN THAT DIRECTION.
WE'RE FORTUNATE TODAY TO HAVE
FOUR DISTINGUISHED WITNESSES WHO
ARE AT THE HEART OF THE RESPONSE
TO CORONAVIRUS. WE'RE GRATEFUL
FOR THEIR SERVICE TO OUR
COUNTRY. I'VE ASKED THEM EACH TO
SUMMARIZE THEIR REMARKS IN FIVE
MINUTES. THEN WE'LL HAVE
FIVE-MINUTE ROUND OF QUESTIONS
FROM EACH SENATOR.
I'VE AGREED WE WILL END OUR
HEARING ABOUT 12:30, AFTER WE
HAVE A FULL ROUND OF QUESTIONS.
EVERY SENATOR WILL HAVE A CHANCE
TO HAVE HIS OR HER FIVE MINUTES.
SENATOR MURRAY WILL THEN HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO ASK THE LAST
QUESTION OR CLOSE THE HEARING
AND I WILL THEN CLOSE THE
HEARING. THERE WILL BE OTHER
HEARINGS TO FOLLOW THIS HEARING,
LIKE LAST THURSDAY'S HEARING.
AND SENATORS MAY SUBMIT THEIR
QUESTIONS IN WRITING WITHIN THE
NEXT 10 DAYS.
STAYING AT HOME INDEFINITELY IS
NOT THE SOLUTION TO THIS
PANDEMIC.
THERE IS NOT ENOUGH MONEY
AVAILABLE TO HELP ALL OF THOSE
HURT BY A CLOSED ECONOMY.
ALL ROADS BACK TO WORK, BACK TO
SCHOOL, LEAD THROUGH TESTING,
TRACKING, ISOLATION, TREATMENT,
AND VACCINE.
THIS REQUIRES WIDESPREAD
TESTING.
MILLIONS MORE TESTS, CREATED
MOSTLY BY NEW TECHNOLOGIES, TO
IDENTIFY THOSE WHO
THIS WAY. NEAR TERM. TO GET
THOSE STUDENTS TO SHOW UP IN
AUGUST, WE NEED MORE WIDESPREAD
TESTING. MILLIONS MORE.
TO IDENTIFY THOSE WHO HAVE BEEN
SICK, WHO HAVE BEEN EXPOSED, SO
THEY CAN BE QUARANTINED BY
CONTAINING THE DISEASE IN THIS
WAY. TO GIVE THE REST OF AMERICA
ENOUGH CONFIDENCE TO GO BACK TO
WORK AND BACK TO SCHOOL.
SENATOR MURRAY?
>> WELL, THANK YOU VERY MUCH,
MR. CHAIRMAN.
MY THOUGHTS ARE WITH YOU. AND
YOUR TEAM RIGHT NOW.
AS YOU TRY TO NAVIGATE THE SAME
CHALLENGE SO MANY IN OUR COUNTRY
ARE WORRIED ABOUT.
WE ALL WISH YOUR STAFF MEMBER A
SPEEDY RECOVERY.
AND IF EVERYONE WORKS TO TAKE
APPROPRIATE SAFETY PRECAUTIONS
TODAY. I'D LIKE TO THANK NOT
ONLY OUR WITNESSES FOR JOINING
US TODAY. BUT ALSO OUR COMMITTEE
STAFF FOR WORKING TO SET UP THE
STATE'S FORMAT FOR MEMBERS AND
WITNESSES AND THE PUBLIC TO
PARTICIPATE IN THIS HEARING
REMOTELY.
FAMILIES ACROSS THE COUNTRY ARE
COUNTING ON US.
FOR THE TRUTH.
ABOUT THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC.
ESPECIALLY SINCE IT IS CLEAR
THEY WILL NOT GET IT FROM
PRESIDENT TRUMP.
TRUTH IS ESSENTIAL.
SO PEOPLE HAVE THE FACTS.
SO THEY CAN MAKE DECISIONS FOR
THEMSELVES AND THEIR FAMILIES
AND THEIR COMMUNITY.
LIVES ARE AT STAKE.
THE PRESIDENT ISN'T
TELLING THE TRUTH. WE MUST. AND
OUR WITNESSES MUST AND ARE
COUNTING ON YOU TODAY. AND
FAMILIES NEED US TO TAKE THIS
OPPORTUNITY TO DIG INTO THE
FACTS ABOUT WHERE THINGS DID GO
WRONG. SO WE CAN FINALLY GET
THEM ON TRACK.
BECAUSE THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION'S RESPONSE TO
THIS PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY SO
FAR HAS BEEN A DISASTER ON ITS
OWN.
DELAYS. MISSTEPS. HAVE PUT US
WAY BEHIND WHERE WE NEED TO BE
ON DIAGNOSTIC TESTS AND AX LOWED
INACCURATE ANTIBODY TESTS TO
FLOOD THE MARKET. CORRUPTION AND
POLITICAL INTERFERENCE HAVE
IMPEDED EFFORTS TO SECURE
DESPERATELY NEEDED PERSONAL
PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT AND
PROMOTED DANGEROUS UNPROVEN
TREATMENT. AND WE RECENTLY
LEARNED THAT AFTER EXPERTS AT
THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL
AND PREVENTION SPENT WEEKS
DEVELOPING A DETAILED GUIDE TO
HELP OUR COMMUNITIES UNDERSTAND
HOW TO SAFELY REOPEN WHEN THE
TIME COMES, THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION TOSSED IT IN THE
TRASH BIN FOR BEING TOO
PRESCRIPTIVE.
THIS IS FAR FROM THE FIRST
ECPERTS WERE DOING THEIR JOB AND
PUTTING
HEALTH FIRST. FACT. MATTER IS,
PRESIDENT TRUMP.
AMERICANS HAVE SADLY PAID THE
PRICE.
SINCE THIS COMMITTEE LAST HEARD
FROM THESE WITNESSES ON MARCH
3rd, WE HAVE SEEN OVER 900
DEATHS IN THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
STILL, PRESIDENT TRUMP IS TRYING
TO IGNORE THE FACTS AND IGNORE
THE EXPERTS.
WHO HAVE BEEN VERY CLEAR WE ARE
NOWHERE CLOSE TO WHERE WE NEED
TO BE. MY HOPE IS WE CAN CUT
THROUGH THIS ABOUT WHAT IS
NEEDED TO SAFELY OPEN. HOW CLOSE
WE ARE AS A COUNTRY TO MEETING
THOSE NEEDS. AND HOW WE ACTUALLY
GET THERE.
ONE THING THAT IS ABUNDANTLY
CLEAR, WE NEED DRAMATICALLY MORE
TESTING.
IT IS UNACCEPTABLE WE STILL
DON'T HAVE A NATIONAL STRATEGIC
PLAN TO MAKE SURE TESTING IS
FREE, FAST AND EVERYWHERE. THAT
IS WHY I THOUGHT TO MAKE SURE
OUR COVID-19 PACKAGING INCLUDED
AN INITIAL $25 BILLION TESTING
FUND.
AND THE REQUIREMENT THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION SUBMIT A PLAN BY
MALE 24th. AND WHEN I SAY A
PLAN, I DON'T MEAN A P.R. PLAN.
I MEAN A PLAN WITH SPECIFIC TIME
LINE AND NUMERIC GOALS FOR
SUPPLY AND FUNDING NEEDS, ONE
THAT ACTUALLY ADDRESSES THE ONE
THAT TESTS ON FUNDING AND
DISPARITY AND BUILDING OUT OUR
PUBLIC HEALTH SYSTEM. MAKES
CLEAR TO STATES AND TRIBES AND
EMPLOYERS AND THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE WHAT THEY CAN EXPECT AND
WHAT THE ADMINISTRATION WILL DO
TO KEEP AMERICANS SAFE.
BUT TESTING ALONE WON'T BE
ENOUGH TO REOPEN OUR COUNTRY.
WE STILL NEED FAR MORE PERSONAL
PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT THAN HAS
BEEN AVAILABLE FOR OUR
HEALTHCARE WORKERS ON THE FRONT
LINE.
AND WE WILL NEED FAR MORE FOR
OTHER WORKERS AFTER WE REOPEN.
SO WE DESPERATELY NEED THIS
ADMINISTRATION TO STEP UP AND
GET THAT EQUIPMENT TO STATES WHO
ARE DOING EVERYTHING IN THEIR
POWER TO PURCHASE SUPPLIES BUT
SIMPLY CANNOT GET NEARLY ENOUGH.
BECAUSE THE REALITY IS, UNLIKE
STATES, THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
HAS THE TOOLS TO ACTUALLY FIX
THE PROBLEM, IF ONLY THE
ADMINISTRATION WOULD USE THEM.
AND WE ALSO NEED THAT EQUIPMENT
TO ACTUALLY WORK AND FOR THE FDA
TO ACT PROMPTLY IF IT DOES NOT.
NOT WEEKS LATER, WHEN PEOPLE MAY
HAVE ALREADY BEEN EXPOSED. AND
JUST AS IMPORTANTLY, WE CAN'T
EXPECT PEOPLE TO GO BACK TO WORK
OR TO RESTAURANT OR
COCONFIDENTLY SEND THEIR KIDS TO
SCHOOL, IF THERE ISN'T CLEAR,
DETAILED GUIDANCE ABOUT HOW TO
DO THAT SAFELY.
SCHOOLS, FROM EARLY CHILDHOOD
THROUGH COLLEGE, NEED TO KNOW
HOW TO KEEP THEIR STUDENTS,
THEIR STAFF AND THEIR EDUCATORS
SAFE.
WHEN SHOULD THEY WEAR MASKS? HOW
DO YOU RUN A SCHOOL CAFETERIA OR
A SCHOOL BUS? AND IF THEY CAN'T
REOPEN CLASSROOMS, SCHOOLS AND
FAMILIES NEED TO KNOW WE ARE
WORKING TO ENSURE EVERY STUDENT
GETS AN EDUCATION.
TOOLS LIKE ONLINE LEARNING CAN
ONLY GET US SO FAR, IF WE DON'T
ADDRESS THE DIGITAL DIVIDE, SO
THAT EVERY STUDENT CAN ACCESS
THEM. EVEN THEN, THERE WILL BE
LEARNING LOSS THAT CAN BE
EXISTING EDUCATIONAL DISPARITY.
AMONG LOW-INCOME STUDENTS,
STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES,
ENGLISH LANGUAGE LEARNERS AND
OTHER VULNERABLE POPULATIONS, IF
WE DON'T MAKE SURE THEY GET
EQUAL ACCESS TO RESOURCES AND
SUPPORT.
AND OF COURSE, SCHOOLS AREN'T
THE ONLY WORKPLACES WE'VE GOT TO
BE THINKING ABOUT.
WE NEED TO MAKE SURE THAT
INDUSTRIES ACROSS THE COUNTRY
KNOW HOW TO SAFELY REOPEN. AND
THAT PEOPLE KNOW THEIR WORKPLACE
IS SAFE.
SECRETARY SCALIA NEEDS TO STOP
DRAGGING HIS FEET AND DO HIS JOB
AND HAVE DEPARTMENT OF LABOR SET
FORWARD A RULE THAT MAKES CLEAR
WORKER SAFETY IS NOT OPTIONAL.
MR. CHAIRMAN, I HOPE THIS
COMMITTEE CAN HEAR ABOUT THOSE
CRITICAL ISSUES FROM SECRETARY
SCALIA AND SECRETARY DEVOSS.
AND THIS IS ESPECIALLY IMPORTANT
TO PROTECT WORKERS AND RESIDENTS
AT OUR NURSING HOMES AND OTHER
CONGREGATE CARE FACILITIES,
WHERE WE'VE SEEN SOME OF THE
MOST DEADLY OUTBREAKS.
AND AS THE RATCH
OF OUTBREAK AT MEAT PACKING
PLANT SHOWS, THIS ISN'T JUST AN
ISSUE FOR THE HEALTHCARE
INDUSTRY, IT IS FOR EVERYONE.
AND JUST AS WE NEED TO PLAN
BEFORE WE START TO REOPEN. WE
ALSO NEED A PLAN WELL BEFORE WE
HAVE A SAFE AND EFFECTIVE
VACCINE, TO GUARANTEE THAT WE
CAN QUICKLY PRODUCE AND
DISTRIBUTE IT ON A GLOBAL SCALE
AND MAKE IT FREE AND AVAILABLE
FOR EVERYONE.
SO I'LL BE ASKING ABOUT OUR
PROGRESS ON THOSE ISSUES TODAY.
TODAY, SAFELY REOPENING OUR
COUNTRY MAY BE A WAYS OFF. AND
THE ADMINISTRATION'S PLANNING
MAY BE WAY BEHIND. BUT THERE'S
STILL A LOT THAT CONGRESS NEEDS
TO DO. THERE ISN'T TIME TO
SPARE.
SOME, INCLUDING THE WHITE HOUSE,
SAY WE HAVE ALREADY PROVIDED
ENOUGH ECONOMIC RELIEF. MY
QUESTION TO THEM IS WHAT GOOD IS
A BRIDGE, IF IT ONLY GETS TO YOU
THE MIDDLE OF THE RIVER? WE
DON'T NEED TO WAIT AROUND TO SEE
IF PEOPLE NEED MORE HELP. WE
KNOW THEY DO. WE NEED TO WORK
QUICKLY ON ANOTHER AGGRESSIVE
RELIEF PACKAGE. AND WE NEED TO
MAKE SURE OUR PRIORITIES IN THAT
BILL ARE PROTECTING OUR WORKERS,
OUR STUDENTS AND OUR FAMILIES
AND ADDRESSING THIS PUBLIC
HEALTH CRISIS, NOT BAILING OUT
CORPORATIONS OR PROTECTING BIG
BUSINESS FROM ACCOUNTABILITY.
PEOPLE ACROSS THE COUNTRY ARE
DOING THEIR PART. THEY ARE
WASHING THEIR HANDS AND WEARING
MASKS AND SOCIAL DISTANCING AND
STAYING HOME.
THEY NEED THEIR GOVERNMENT TO DO
ITS PART, TOO.
THEY NEED LEADERSHIP. THEY NEED
A PLAN.
THEY NEED HONESTY. AND THEY NEED
IT NOW.
BEFORE WE REOPEN. SO THEY CAN
REST ASSURED THAT WE ARE DOING
THINGS SAFELY AND CONFIDENTLY,
WITH THEIR HELP AND WELL BEING
AT THE TOP PRIORITY. THANK YOU,
MR. CHAIRMAN.
>> IT'S AN IMPORTANT HEARING AND
I KNOW MANY PEOPLE MAY BE
WATCHING IT FOR THE FIRST TIME.
IF THEY ARE, I HOPE THEY NOTICE
WE HAVE 23 MEMBERS ON THIS
COMMITTEE, I BELIEVE, ONE MORE
REPUBLICAN THAN DEMOCRAT. WE
HAVE SOME VERY STRONG VIEWS, BUT
WE'RE ABLE TO WORK TOGETHER AND
EXPRESS THOSE VIEWS AND RESPECT
EACH OTHER AND OUR WITNESSES.
AND A BIG PART OF THAT GOES TO
SENATOR MURRAY AND HER STAFF. SO
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
EACH WITNESS WILL HAVE UP TO
FIVE MINUTES TO GIVE HIS
TESTIMONY.
THANK YOU FOR MAKING AN
EXCEPTION.
AND AGREEING TO TESTIFY BY
VIDEO, BECAUSE OF THESE UNUSUAL
CIRCUMSTANCES. AND THANK YOU FOR
WHAT YOU'RE DOING FOR OUR
COUNTRY. OUR FIRST WITNESS IS
DR. ANTHONY FAUCI.
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH.
HE'S HELD THAT POSITION SINCE
1984, WHICH MEANT HE'S ADVISED
SIX PRESIDENTS AND WORKED ON HIV
A.I.D.S., INFLUENZA, MALARIA.
AND OTHER INFECTIOUS DISEASES.
HE WAS INVOLVED IN TREATING
EBOLA PATIENTS AT NIH AND ALSO
WORKED ON VACCINE TRIALS FOR
EBOLA.
NEXT. WE'LL HEAR FROM DR. ROBERT
REDFIELD. HE'S DIRECTOR FROM THE
U.S. CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL
AND HAD ITS HEART
ATTACKS IN ATLANTA.
CHRONIC HUMAN VIRAL INFECTIONS.
ESPECIALLY HIV. HE WAS THE
FOUNDING DIRECTOR OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF RETRO VIRAL
RESEARCH FOR THE U.S. MILITARY'S
HIV RESEARCH PROGRAM.
HE SPENT 20 YEARS FOR THE U.S.
ARMY MEDICAL CORPS. NEXT,
ADMIRAL JAWA. ASSISTANT
SECRETARY FOR HEALTH AT THE U.S.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES. THAT PUTS HIM IN
CHARGE OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY.
FOCUS ON INCREASING NUMBER OF
TESTS THAT WE DO WITH EXISTING
TECHNOLOGY. THIS INCLUDES A
VARIETY OF ACTIVITIES WITH OUR
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT IN ADVANCED
RESEARCH, THREAT REDUCTION. HE
WAS PART OF THE BLUE RIBBON
PANEL TO REFORM THE U.S.
VETERANS HEALTH SYSTEM. AND
FINALLY, WE'LL HEAR FROM DR.
STEVEN HAHN.
THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MD
ANDERSON CANCER CENTER. CHAIR OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF RADIATION,
ONCOLOGY AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
SERVICE CORPSE 2025.
FOLLOWING THAT, EACH SENATOR
WILL HAVE FIVE MINUTES OF
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS, IN ORDER
OF SENATOR. DR. FAUCI, LET'S
BEGIN WITH YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE, THANK
YOU FOR GIVING ME THE
OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS WITH YOU
TODAY THE ROLE, THE NATIONAL
INSTITUTES OF THE NATIONAL
INSTITUTES OF HEALTH AND
RESEARCH, ADDRESSING COVID-19.
THE STRATEGIC PLAN THAT WE HAVE
IS FOUR FOLD. ONE, TOO IMPROVE
OUR FUNDAMENTAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE
VIRUS AND THE DISEASE IT CAUSES.
NEXT.
TO DEVELOP NEW POINT OF CARE
DIAGNOSTICS. NEXT, TO
CHARACTERIZE, AND TEST
THERAPEUTICS. AND FINALLY, ABOUT
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE VACCINES.
FIRST, WITH REGARD TO
DIAGNOSTICS. AS YOU PROBABLY
HEARD FROM DR. FRANCIS THURSDAY.
THE NIH HAS DEVELOPED THE RAPID
DIAG NOSTICS PROGRAM.
WITH AWARD TO THAT SPECIFIC
PROGRAM, UP TO HALF A BILLION
DOLLARS TO SUPPORT THE
DEVELOPMENT OF COVID-19
DIAGNOSTICS. IT IS A NATIONAL
CALL FOR INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY
THAT WILL BE EVALUATED IN A
SHARK TANK LIKE SELECTION
PROCESS. TO GET TO EITHER
SUCCESS OR FAILURE, RAPIDLY.
MOVING ONTO THERAPEUTICS. I'LL
TALK A BIT ABOUT THE REMDESIVIR
SUCCESS ANTI-VIRAL IN A MOMENT.
BUT LET ME EMPHASIZE THAT THERE
ARE A NUMBER OF BROAD SPECTRUM
ANTI-VIRALS IN VARIOUS STAGES OF
TESTING.
.
>> The result was significant
>>> AND REALLY MODEST. WE HAVE
TO REMEMBER THAT IT WAS ONLY A
MODEST RESULT SHOWING THAT THE
DRUG MADE A 31% FASTER TIME FOR
RECOVERY. WE HOPE TO BUILD ON
THIS MODEST SUCCESS WITH
COMBINATIONS OF DRUGS AND BETA
DRUGS. MOVING ON TO VACCINES.
THERE ARE AT LEAST EIGHT
CANDIDATES COVID-19 VACCINES IN
CLINICAL DEVELOPMENT. THE NIH
IS COLLABORATING WITH THE
PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES WITH
THE VARIOUS STAGES OF
DEVELOPMENT. I WILL DESCRIBE
ONE BRIEFLY, AND THAT'S NOT THE
ONLY ONE. ONE THAT WE HAVE BEEN
INVOLVED WITH HEAVILY
DEVELOPING. IT'S THE MESSENGER
RNA PLATFORM. YOU MAY RECALL IN
THIS COMMITTEE THAT IN JANUARY
OF THIS YEAR I SAID THAT IT
WOULD TAKE ABOUT A YEAR TO
18 MONTHS IF WE WERE
SUCCESSFULLY IN DEVELOPING A
VACCINE. THE NIH TRIAL MOVED
VERY QUICKLY. ON JANUARY 10TH,
THE SEQUENCE WAS KNOWN. THEY
SENT IT TO DEVELOP A PLAN. ON
THE 14th OF JANUARY, WE STARTED
TO
VACCINE DEVELOPMENT. 62 DAYS
LATER WE ARE NOW IN PHASE ONE
CLINICAL TRIAL. THERE'S ANIMAL
SAFETY THAT THE PHASE ONE WILL
GO IN TO PHASE TWO THREE LATE
SPRING EARLY SUMMER, AND IF
WE'RE SUCCESSFUL, WE HOPE TO
KNOW THAT IN THE LATE FALL AND
EARLY WINTER. THERE ARE SOME
IMPORTANT ISSUES IN COVID-19
VACCINE DEVELOPMENT. WE HAVE
MANY CANDIDATES THAT HOPE TO
HAVE MULTIPLE WINNERS. IN OTHER
WORDS, IF THE SHOTS WERE ON
GOAL, THIS IS IMPORTANT BECAUSE
THIS WILL BE GOOD FOR THE
GLOBAL
AVAILABILITY IF WE HAVE MORE
THAN ONE SUCCESSFUL CANDIDATE.
WE ALLEGES AS THE CHAIRMAN
MENTIONED WILL BE REPRODUCING
THE VACCINE AT RISK, AND THAT
MEAN THAT IS WE'RE INVEST
DATEING THE CONSIDERABLE
RESOURCES IN DEVELOPING BEFORE
WE KNOW ANY GIVEN CANDIDATES OR
CANDIDATES WORK. I MUST WARN
THAT THERE'S A POSSIBILITY OF
KNEEING TOUGHER CONSCIENCES
WHERE CERTAIN VACCINES CAN
ENHANCE THE NEGATIVE AFFECT OF
THE INFECTION. THE BIG UNKNOWN
IS ITHACA SI. IS IT PRESENT AND
HOW DURABLE WILL IT BE. THEN I
WANT TO NOTE THAT THEY HAVE
LAUNCHED A PUBLIC PRIVATE
PARTNERSHIP THAT IS COVID-19
VACCINES. THE PURPOSE OF THAT
IS TO PRIORITIZE AND ACCELERATE
CLINICAL COLLABORATION OF
CANDIDATES WITH THE POTENTIAL.
HOPEFULLY THE RESEARCH EFFORTS
TOGETHER WITH THE OTHER PUBLIC
HEALTH EFFORTS WILL GET US
QUICKLY TO AN END TO THIS ORDEAL
THAT WE'RE ALL GOING THROUGH.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH. HAPPY TO
ANSWER QUESTIONS LATER.
>> THANK YOU DR., FAUCI.
>> GOOD MORNING, CHAIRMAN
ALEXANDER AND MEMBERS OF THE
COMMIT TEE. OUR NATION IS
CONFRONTING THE MOST SERIOUS
PUBLIC HEALTH CRISIS IN MORE
THAN A CENTURY. WE'RE NOT
DEFENSELESS. WE HAVE POWERFUL
TOOLS TO FIGHT THIS ENEMY. WE
HAVE TRIED AND TRUE AFFECTIVE
PUBLIC HEALTH INTERVENTIONS
SUCH
AS THE EARLY IDENTIFICATION,
ISOLATION AND CONTRACT TRACING
COMBINED WITH THE IMPORTANT
MITIGATION STRATEGY AND
INCLUDING THE SOCIAL DISTANCING
AND THE FREQUENT HAND WASHING
AND FACE COVERINGS. THESE
PUBLIC TOOLS HAVE AND WILL
CONTINUE TO SLOW THE SPREAD OF
COVID-19. I PREACHED THE
OPPORTUNITY THIS MORNING FOR
THE
WORK OF COVID-19. CDC HAS BEEN
WORKING 24/7 TO COMBAT THE
PANDEMIC. THE CDC EMERGENCY
OPERATION CENTER IS SUPPORTING
THE STATE, TRIBAL, LOCAL AND
TERRITORIAL DEPARTMENTS IN
BUILDING CORE CAPABILITIES LIKE
WORKFORCE, LABORATORY AND DATA
ANALYTICS. EPIDEMIOLOGYST ARE
CONDUCTING SURVEILLANCE FOR
COVID-19 AND THE HEALTH SYSTEM
SURVEILLANCE. THE MITIGATION
TEAMS ARE PROVIDING THE
GUIDANCE
ON THE CONTACT TRACING AND THE
LABORATORY EXPERTS ARE
PERFORMING THE TESTING TO
BETTER
DEFINE THE EXTENT OF THE
POPULATION. AS LOCAL
LEADERSHIPS MAKE THE DECISIONS
TO REOPEN, THEY WILL REQUIRE
THE
VARYING DEGREES OF THE FEDERAL
SUPPORT. EACH LOCATION IS
DIFFERENT AND WILL FACE UNIQUE
CIRCUMSTANCES. THE CDC HAS
CONDUCTED A STATE BY STATE
ASSESSMENT OF THE PUBLIC HEALTH
TESTING, CAPACITY AND KEY
CONTACT TRACING CAPACITY AS
WELL
AS THE SURGE PLANS.
THEY'RE PROVIDING THE TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE TO THE STATE
PROVIDING TO THE SUPPLEMENTAL
CARES ABOUT AND ENHANCEMENT.
WE'RE WORKING DIRECTLY WITH THE
STATE PUBLIC LEADER TO DEFINE
THEIR NEEDS FOR THE TESTING AND
TESTING DEVICES, SUPPLIES AND
MANPOWER, SU SCREE LON, DATA
AND THEIR
JURISDICTION AND THEN WILL
ADDRESS THE TESTING COMPONENTS
OF THE RESPONSE IN GREATER
DETAIL. CONTACT TRACING,
INCREASING STATE AND CONTACT
TRACING CAPACITY IS CRITICAL.
IT'S A CRITICAL PART TO STOP
THE
CHANGE OF THE TRANSMISSION AND
PREVENT THE OCCURRENCE OF
SUSTAINING COMMUNITY
TRANSMISSION. CDC'S ROLL IS TO
PROVIDE THE TECHNICAL TRAINING,
ASSISTANCE AND SUPPORT FOR THE
STATE AS THEY HIRE AND BUILD A
WORKFORCE NECESSARY TO BE FULLY
PREPARED TO RESPOND TO THE
PUBLIC HEALTH CHALLENGES BY THE
ONGOING PANDEMIC. THIS IS GOING
TO BE AN EXPANSIVE EFFORT.
SURVEILLANCE, OUR NATION'S
SURVEILLANCE PROGRAM IS BUILT ON
A COMBINATION OF THE SYSTEMS
INCLUDING THE EXISTING AND
RESPIRATORY DISEASE AND THE
SURVEILLANCE SYSTEMS AND COMBINE
WITH THE COMMERCIAL AND
RESEARCH
LAB PLATFORMS AND IN
THE CASE
REPORTING FORM PAL. THEY HAVE
THESE IN RESPONSE TO COVID-19.
IN REPORT OF THE CURBS OF THE
INFECTION, THE SURVEILLANCE FOR
ASYSTEMATIC INFECTIONS BECOMES
AN IMPORTANT PUBLIC
HEALTH TOOL
FOR EARLY IDENTIFICATION.
THEY'RE WORKING WITH EACH TO
DEVELOP A PROGRAM FOR THE
SURVEILLANCE AND WE NEED TO
REBUILD THE NATION'S PUBLIC
HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE. THE DATA
ANALYTICS AND THEN THE
RESILIENCE AND THEN THE
NATION'S
PUBLIC WORKFORCE. NOW, IS THE
TIME TO PUT IT IN PLACE FOR THE
GENERATIONS TO COME. NOT ONLY
FOR THE PUBLIC HEALTH SYSTEMS
THAT THE NATION NEEDS, BUT FOR
THE PUBLIC HEALTH SYSTEM THAT
THE PUBLIC DESERVES. BEFORE I
CLOSE, I WANT TO RECOGNIZE THE
DEDICATION TO THE CDC STAFF
THAT
HAS DEPLOYED TO EVERY CORNER OF
THE NATION TO FIGHT COVID-19.
MORE THAN 4,000 EMPLOYEES HAVE
DEPLOYED. SCIENCE AND DATA
CONTINUE WITH THE EXPERT AND TO
BE THE BACKBONE OF THE U.S.
RESPONSE. I EXTEND THE SERIOUS
GRATITUDE TO THE HEALTH CARE
WORKERS IN THE FRONT LINES AS
WELL AS THE FAMILIES AND THEN
THE ESSENTIAL PERSONNEL AS WELL
AS THE AMERICAN PEOPLE TO SAY
THANK YOU TO THE STAY AT HOME
GUIDELINES AND PROTECTING TO
THE
MOST VULNERABLE. IT'S IMPORTANT
TO SAY THAT WE'RE NOT OUT OF
THE
WOODS YET. THEY'RE MORE
PREPARED, AND WE NEED TO STAY
VIGILANTE IN THE SOCIAL
DISTANCING AND REMAINING
IMPERATIVE. WE'RE A RESILIENT
NATION, AND WE WILL STAY LONGER
TOGETHER. THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, DR. RED
FIELD.  WELCOME.
AN UPDATE ON THE NATION'S
PROCESS IN TESTING FOR
COVID-19.
ON MARCH 12TH, SECRETARY AZAR
SAY THAT I LEAVE THE EFFORTS
WHEN HHS AND OVERSIGHT AND THE
FDA AND SINCE THEN THE NATION
HAS PERFORMED MORE THAN 9
MILLION COVID-19 TASKS. A
NUMBER FAR GREATER THAN ANY
OTHER COUNTRY AND DOUBLE THE PER
CAPITA TEST PERFORMED TO DATE
IN
SOUTH KOREA. TO REACH THIS
POINT, WE KID A PHASED APPROACH
TO MEET THE TESTING NEEDS
DURING
MITIGATION AND NOW DURING PHASE
ONE OF THE REOPENING OF
AMERICA.
DURING MARCH 20TH WE HAD 21
COMMUNITY BASED DRIVE-THRU
TESTING SITES IN THE CDC.
TESTING OVER A THOUSAND AND
DEMONSTRATES A PROPERTY TYPE
THAT'S IN NEARLY EVERY STATE.
NEXT, THE ADMINISTRATION
LEVERAGE TRUSTED THE RETAILERS
LIKE CVS, RITE-AID, WALMART
THAT
ARE PROVIDING TESTING AT 240
LOCATIONS IN 33 STATES. 69% OF
WHICH ARE IN THE COMMUNITIES
WITH THE HIGH VON BLT. TO MEET
THE NEEDS LIKE THE SWABS AND
MEDIA TUBES, WE FIRST SUPPLIED
THE CHAIN TO A MILITARY AIR
BRIDGE. WE WORKED DIRECTLY WITH
THE MANUFACTURES TO INCREASE
THE
DOMESTIC PRODUCTION. WE
COLLABORATE WITH THE PRIVATE
SECTOR AND THE FDA TO VALIDATE
THE SWAB AND MEDIA TYPES THAT
EXPANDED AND MINIMIZED THE
NEEDS
FOR PPE. FINELY WE USED THE
TITLE THREE OF THE DEFENSE
PRODUCTION ACT TO FURTHER INVEST
IN THE MANUFACTURING TO PREPARE
US FOR THE REOPENING. TO
SUPPORT THE NEED FOR
SURVEILLANCE TESTING FOR
REOPENING, ON APRIL 27TH WE
ISSUED A NEW TESTING FRAME WORK
THAT ALSO PRIORITIZED THE
TESTING FOR PERSON'S WITHOUT
SYMPTOMS THAT ARE PRIORITIZED
BY
THE HEALTH DEPARTMENTS FOR ANY
REASON INCLUDING THE SCREENING
OF THE ASYSTEMATIC INDIVIDUALS
ACCORDING TO
THE STATE AND LOCAL
PLANS. NEXT THE TEAM HAD CALLS
WITH THE LEADERSHIP FROM EACH
STATE TO SET STATE SPECIFIC
TESTING OBJECTIVE. COLLECTIVELY
THE STATES AND TERRITORIES
ESTABLISHED AN OVERALL GOAL TO
PERFORM 12.9 MILLION TESTS OVER
THE NEXT FOUR WEEKS. THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS ABLE TO
AND WILL SUPPORT THE
ACHIEVEMENT
OF THIS GOAL. SPECIFICALLY, THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS SHIPPING
TO STATES 12.9 MILLION SWABS
AND
OVER 9.7 MILLION TUBES OF MEDIA
IN MAY ALONE. LAST MONTH WE
ALSO DETAILED THE LOCATION AND
CAPACITY OF EVERY LAB MACHINE
IN
EVERY STATE THAT COULD
POTENTIALLY RUB COVID-19 APHASE.
THE TEAM HAS WORK WITH THE TEST
SUPPLIERS TO MATCH THEM WITH
THE
MACHINES. ROOKING FORWARD
BETWEEN NOW AND THE END OF
2020,
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT WILL
HAVE
OVER 135 MILLION SWABS AND 132
MILLION TUBES OF MEDIA AND
DISTRIBUTE THEM TO THE PHASE AS
REQUESTED TO SUPPLEMENT THE NOW
ROBUST SUPPLY. WE ANTICIPATE
THE CURRENT TESTS AS WELL AS
THE
DRAMATIC EXPANSION OF THE NEW
CARE TESTS LIKE THE FIRST IN
CLASS TEST AUTHORIZED BY THE
FDA
JUST LAST FRIDAY. THEY
ANTICIPATE BEING ABLE TO
DISTRIBUTE 300,000 TESTS PER DAY
WITHIN JUST A FEW WEEKS. SO BY
SEPTEMBER TAKING EVERY ASPECT
OF
THE COPMENT, AUTHORIZATION AND
THEN THE SUPPLY CHAIN IN TO
CONSIDERATION, WE PROJECT THAT
THE NATION IS CAPABLE OF
PERFORMING AT LEAST 40 TO 50
MILLION TESTS PER MONTH IF
NEEDED AT THAT TIME. AND IF
THEY'RE AUTHORIZED LIKE THE
APPROACHES OR ANY NOVEL
SOLUTIONS UNCOVERED BY THE NIH
INITIATIVE, THAT NUMBER IS
HIGHER. FINALLY, I WANT TO
ACKNOWLEDGE AND EXPRESS THE
HEART FELT GRATITUDE TO THE
OFFICERS OF THE U.S. PUBLIC
HEALTH SERVICE COMMISSION CORE.
THE UNIFORMED SERVICE THAT I'M
HONORED TO LEAD. 3471 MEN AND
WOMAN HAVE DEPLOYED IN SUPPORT
OF THIS PANDEMIC. ON THE CRUISE
SHIP IN JAPAN TO OUR MILITARY
BASES IN AMERICA, TO OUR
COMMUNITY BASE TESTING SITES AND
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, TO FEMA
AND THE TASK FORCES TO NURSING
FACILITIES INCLUDING KING
COUNTY
WASHINGTON AND TO FIELD
HOSPITALS IN HARD HIT
COMMUNITIES ACROSS THE NATION.
I THANK EACH AND EVERY ONE OF
THESE OFFICERS AND THEIR
FAMILIES AND ON THEIR BEHALF, I
THANK THE MEMBERS OF THIS
COMMITTEE FOR SUPPORTING THE
TRAINING NEEDS AND THE READY
BEST RESERVE TO SUPPLEMENT THE
RANKS AND FUTURE NATIONAL
EMERGENCIES. THANK YOU FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TO PROVIDE THE
REMARKS.
>> THANK YOU GIOR.
>> MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE,
THANK YOU FOR INVITING ME TO
PARTICIPATE IN THIS HEARING
TODAY. I FIRST WANT TO START BY
THANKING THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
FOR
THEIR INCREDIBLE EFFORTS AT
MITIGATION AND EXTEND MY
CONDOLENCES TO THOSE THAT HAVE
LOST LOVED ONES. FROM DAY ONE
OF THIS PANDEMIC THE 18,000 FDA
EMPLOYEES WHO ARE JUST
INCREDIBLE SCIENTISTS AND
DOCTORS AND NURSES HAVE TAKEN
AN
ACTIVE ROLE FOR THE GOVERNMENT
RESPONSE TO THIS PANDEMIC. THE
FDA HAS WORKED TO FACILITATE TO
DIAGNOSIS, TREAT COVID-19. WE
HAVE WORKED CLOSELY WITH THE
LABORATORIES, MANUFACTURES, OUR
FEDERAL PARTNERS AND COMPANIES.
COMPANIES THAT DO NOT MAKE THE
MEDICAL PROPERTIES BUT WANT TO
PITCH IN BY MAKING HAND
SANITIZER AND PERSONAL
EQUIPMENT. EVERY DECISION THAT
WE HAVE MADE IS DRIVEN BY THE
DATA AND THE GOAL OF PROTECTING
THE HEALTH AND AMERICAN PEOPLE.
IN THE PUB RE PUBLIC HEALTH,
THE
RESPONSE IS BOND TO THE URGENT
NEEDS TO MAKE THE MEDICAL
PRODUCTS AVAILABLE WITH THE
PROVISION OF A LEVEL OF
OVERSIGHT THAT HELPS WITH THE
SAFETY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE
MEDICAL PRODUCTS. I WOULD LIKE
TO TAKE A FEW MINUTES TO SAY
WHAT THE FFDA IS DOING AT THERE
POINT AND THEY HAVE THE SAFE TO
RETURN TO WORK AND SCHOOL. IT
STARTS WITH TESTESING AS OTHERS
HAVE MENTIONED. THEY HAVE
WORKED WITH MORE THAN 500
DEVELOPERS AS AND SAY THAT THEY
WILL BE SUBMITTING THE
AUTHORIZATION REQUEST FOR THE
COVID-19 TESTING. THIS IS SOME
NEWER TECHNOLOGY THAT NOT
WITHIN
USED FOR THE TESTING RESPONSE TO
THE PANDEMIC. WE HAVE ISSUED 92
INDIVIDUALS I EMERGENCY USE
AUTHORIZATIONS FOR THE
MANUFACTURES AND LABORATORIES,
AND WE HAVE BEEN INFORMED BY
MORE THAN 250 LABORATORIES AND
THEY HAVE BEGUN TO TEST UNDER
THE FLEXIBILITIES THAT WE
OUTLINED IN MARCH. WE ARE
CONDUCTING ROLLING REVIEWS AT
THE UA SUBMISSIONS SO THAT WE
CAN QUICKLY AUTHORIZE THE TESTS
AND DATA SUPPORTS. THE ACCURACY
IN THE TESTING IS IMPORTANT NOT
ONLY FOR THE INDIVIDUAL PATIENT
BUT FOR THE PATIENT AT LARGE
AND
THE PUBLIC AT LARGE. FDA IS
HELPING TO ENSURE THE TESTS
THAT
ARE PROVIDING THE ACCURATE
ANSWERS. WE'RE ALSO MONITORING
THE MARKETPLACE FOR FRAUDULENT
AND TAKE TAKING APPROPRIATE
ACTION FOR THE PUBLIC HEALTH,
AND WE'RE WORKING FOR MORE
CLARITY ON WHICH TESTS HAVE
BEEN
REVIEWED AND WHICH HAVE NOT. IT
WILL PLAY A ROLL IN
THE RECOVERY
UNLIKE THE DIAGNOSTIC TEST WHEN
THE BODY IS LIKE COVID-19.
THESE TESTS CAN IDENTIFY THE
INDIVIDUALS THAT CAN OVERCOME
AN
INFECTION AND HAVE DEVELOPED AN
IMMUNE RESPONSE. WE WILL
CONTINUE TO WORK WITH THE LABS
AND MANUFACTURES AND ACROSS THE
GOVERNMENT FIND ONE THAT THE
TEST IS ACCURATE IN A TIMELY
ACCESS FOR SUCH TESTS. OF
COURSE, THE WAY THAT WE WILL
BEAT THIS VIRUS IS WITH A
VACCINE. WE'RE WORKING WITH NIH
AND VACCINE DEVELOPERS AND
PANNING FRACTURES AND EXPERTS
ACROSS THE GLOBE. WE INTEND TO
USE THE FLEXIBILITY TO HELP
INSURE THE MOST FISHLTD
DEVELOPMENT OF THE SAFE AND
AFFECTIVE VACCINE TO PREVENT
COVID-19. UNTIL THE VACCINE IS
APPROVED, HOWEVER, WE NEED THE
MEDICAL PRODUCTS TO BRIDGE THE
GAPS. THE FDA IS WORKING NOR
MONTHS FOR THE, AND WE HAVE
CREATED AN EMERGENCY BRAMANTE
FOR THIS ACCELERATION CALLED
THE
CORONAVIRUS TREATMENT
ACCELERATION PROGRAM OR CTAT.
WE HAVE RE-ASSIGNED THE STAFF
TO
WORK WITH THE URGENCY AND
REVIEW
THE REQUESTS AND COMPANIES AND
SCIENTISTS AND DOCTORS THAT ARE
DEVELOPING THERAPIES, AND WE'RE
USING EVERY AVAILABILITY
AUTHORITY AND FLEXIBILITY
THAT'S
APPROPRIATE TO FACILITATE THE
DEVELOPMENT OF THE SAFE AND
AFFECTIVE PRODUCTS TO TREAT
COVID-19. A VARIETY OF THE
AREAS ARE BEING EVALUATED AS
MENTIONED AND THEN THE
ANTIVIRAL
DRUGS AND THEN THE
HYDROXYCHLOROQUINE. AS DR.
FAUCI SAID WE HAVE THE POSITIVE
RESULTS TESTIFY TRIAL AND
ISSUED
AN EUA FOR THE TREATMENT OF THE
HOSPITALIZED PATIENTS FOR
COVID-19. TWO OTHER PROMISING
TRIPLEDS ARE THE RICH PRODUCTS
AND PLASMA AND I AM CERTAINLY
WILLING TO GO IN TO MORE DETAIL
IF MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE
HAVE
QUESTIONS ABOUT THIS. WE ARE
WORKING VERY AGGRESSIVELY AND
CLOSELY WITH THE STAKEHOLDERS
TO
FACILITATE THE DEVELOPMENT AND
IS SHONE TO BE SAFE AND AIF HE
CANNIVE AND COULD BE THE
DEVELOPMENT OF THE VACCINE. WE
RECOGNIZE THAT DEVELOPING THE
VACCINES AND THERAPY NEED TO GO
HAND AND HAND AND INSURING THAT
THEY WILL BE SUFFICIENT
SUPPLIES
FOR THE COMPANIES AND THE
COUNTRY, SO WE'RE ALSO WORKING
WITH MANUFACTURES TO MAKE SURE
THAT THIS SUPPLY CHAIN IS
ROBUST. MR. CHAIRMAN, RANKING
MEMBERS AND MEMBERS OF THE
COMMITTEE, KNOW THAT THE FDA HAS
SOME OF THE FINIST SCIENTISTS,
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS AND
PROFESSIONALS. WE'RE GUIDED BY
THE SCIENCE AND DATA, AND WE
WILL NOT LET UP UNTIL WE HAVE
THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRODUCTS
THAT THE NATION NEEDS TO GET
BACK TO WORK. I LOOK FORWARD TO
YOUR QUESTIONS.
>> THANK YOU, DR. HAHN, AND
THANK YOU FOR THE EXPERTISE AND
DEDICATION TO THE COUNTRY AND
HARD WORK. WE WILL NOW BEGIN A
ROUND OF FIVE MINUTE QUESTIONS
FROM EACH SENATOR ON THE
COMMITTEE ALTERNATING BETWEEN
REPUBLICANS
AND DEMOCRATS. EACH
SENATOR HAS A TIME CLOCK AT THE
BOTTOM. I ASK YOU TO STAY
WITHIN FIVE
LET'S
LOOK DOWN THE ROAD TO A FEW
MONTHS. THERE'S THOUSANDS OF
COLLEGES AND PUBLIC SCHOOLS
WELCOMING 50 MILLION STUDENTS
WHAT WOULD YOU SAY TO THE
CHANCELLOR OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
TENNESSEE KNOXVILLE OR THE
PRINCIPAL OF A PUBLIC SCHOOL
ABOUT HOW TO PERSUADE PARENTS
AND STUDENTS THAT ARE PREPARING
FOR SCHOOL IN AUGUST? LET'S
START WITH TREATMENTS AND
VACCINES FIRST, DR. FAUCI. IF
WE COULD SAVE A FEW MINUTES FOR
GIOR FOR TESTING.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH. I WOULD
BE VERY REALISTIC AND SAY WHEN
WE'RE IN TERMS --
>> IT'S A HER IN THIS CASE.
>> I WOULD TELL HER IN THIS CASE
THAT THE IDEA OF HAVING
TREATMENTS AVAILABLE OR A
VACCINE TO FACILITATE THE
REEENT
INDUSTRY OF STUDENTS IN TO THE
FALL TERM WOULD BE SOMETHING
THAT WOULD BE A BIT OF A BRIDGE
TOO FAR. AS I MENTIONED, THE
DRUG THAT'S SHONE SOME DEGREE
OF
WAS MODEST AND IN A HOSPITAL
LOSED PATIENTS. NOT YET OR
MAYBE YET TO BE USED EITHER YET
AS A TREATMENT. IF THE ISSUE IS
THAT THE YOUNG INDIVIDUALS THAT
WOULD BE GOING BACK TO SCHOOL
WOULD LIKE TO HAVE SOME COMFORT
AND THERE'S A TREATMENT,
PROBABLY THE THING THAT YOU
WOULD BE CLOSEST TO UTILIZATION
WOULD BE LIKELY THE
CONVALESCENT
SERUM. WE'RE NOT TALKING
NECESSARILY OF TREATING A
STUDENT THAT GETS ILL, BUT HOW
THE STUDENT WILL FEEL SAFE
IN
GOING BACK TO SCHOOL. IF THIS
IS A SITUATION THAT WE HAD THE
VACCINE, THAT WOULD BE THE END
OF THE ISSUE IN A POSITIVE WAY.
AS I SAID IN THE OPENING
REMARKS, EVEN AT THE TOP SPEED
THAT I'M GOING, WE DON'T SEE A
VACCINE PLAYING IN THE
INDIVIDUALS TO GET BACK TO
SCHOOL THIS TERM. WHAT THEY
REALLY WANT IS TO KNOW IF
THEY'RE SAFE. THAT'S THE
QUESTION THAT WOULD HAVE TO BE
DUE WITH WHAT WE DISCUSSED
EARLIER ON THE TESTING. I AM
ABOUT HALF WAY THROUGH THE
REMARKS AND WOULD LIKE TO AND
WHO WOULD ADDRESS THE QUESTION
AND THE AVAILABILITY OF THE
TESTING AND WHAT ROLE THAT MIGHT
PLAY IN RETURNING TO THE
SCHOOL.
>> THANK YOU, DR. FAUCI. YOU
SAID WHILE WE'RE DOING ABOUT TEN
MILLION TESTS THIS MONTH, WE'RE
DOING 50 MILLION BY SEPTEMBER A
MONTH. THAT'S A SIGNIFICANT
INCREASE. IF I AM THE
CHANCELLOR OF UNIVERSITY OF
TENNESSEE, COULD I DEVELOP A
STRATEGY THAT I CAN SAY THAT WE
HAVE A TEST THAT'S QUICK AND
EASY? DO YOU WANT EVERYBODY ON
CAMPUS TO COME BY AND TAKE IT
ONCE BEFORE YOU START SCHOOL. I
WOULD LET EVERYBODY KNOW ON
THAT
DAY THAT WE HAVE ISOLATED ANYONE
THAT'S POSITIVE AND CONTINUE TO
MONITOR. IS THAT STRATEGY
POSSIBLE IN
AUGUST AND
SEPTEMBER?
>> SO THANK YOU. I WILL GIVE 20
SECONDS TO
DR.
RED FIELD AS
WELL. IF THERE'S A HIGH SPREAD,
IT WILL ALSO BE DIFFERENT. YES,
TECHNICALLY WE HAVE AND THERE'S
THE ABILITY AND WE EXPECT THERE
TO BE 25 TO 30 POINTS AVAILABLE
AND CERTAINLY POSSIBLE TO TEST
ALL OF THE STUDENTS OR IT'S
MUCH
MORE LIKELY THAT THERE WOULD BE
A SURVEILLANT STRATEGY DONE AND
YOU MAY TEST THE STUDENTS AT
DIFFERENT TIMES TO GIVE THE
ASSURANCE THAT THERE'S NO
CIRCULATION AND THAT'S DONE WITH
THE LOCAL CDC AND HEALTH
DEPARTMENT. THERE'S A STRATEGY
THAT'S NEED TO BE VALIDATED AND
THEN THE POOLING SAMPLES. WE
KNOW IN THE LABS AS MANY AS TEN
OR 20 SAMPLES WILL BE PULLED
AND
THEN ONE TEST CAN TEST 20
STUDENTS. FINALLY, THERE'S AN
APPROACH THAT LOOKS INTERESTING
AND PROMISING THAT FOR EXAMPLE
THE WASTE WATER FROM AN ENTIRE
DORM COULD BE TESTED TO
DETERMINE WHETHER THERE'S
CORONAVIRUS IN THAT SEWAG
SECTION WASTE WATER. THERE ARE
OTHER STRATEGIES BEING
DEVELOPED. AS WE GIVE
20 SECONDS TO DR. RED IF HE
WOULD THAT'S WORKING ON THE
STELLATAE GEE FOR THE COMMUNITY
SPREAD.
>> DR. RED FIELD.
>> YEAH, I THINK THAT IT'S
REALLY IMPORTANT TO EVALUATE
CRITICALLY THE ROLE OF THE
CHANGE IN THE SOCIAL DISTANCING
ON THE COLLEGE CAMPUSES AND
SCHOOLS AND SITUATIONS AND NOT
TO FORGET THE
IMPORTANCE OF WHAT
WE LEARN ED LEARNED.  I THINK
WE'RE GOING
TO HAVE TO LOOK AT THE ROLE OF
TESTING. I THINK THERE'S AN
IMPORTANT ROLE OF TESTING, AND
I
THINK THAT IT'S INDIVIDUALIZED
BASED ON WHERE THE DIFFERENT
SCHOOLS ARE AND HOW MUCH
INFECTION IS IN THE AIR.
>> YEAH, I'M GOING TO WRAP IT UP
THERE AND SET A GOOD EXAMPLE
FOR
THE SENATORS WITH THE
FIVE
MINUTES. SENATOR MURRAY.
OPEN TOO SOON. THE PRESIDENT IS
SENDING THE OPPOSITE MESSAGE. I
WANT TO ASK YOU TODAY, WHAT IS
THE MOST IMPORTANT MESSAGE THAT
YOU HAVE FOR COMMUNITIES AND
STATES THAT ARE REOPENING EVEN
IF THE PUBLIC HEALTH EXPERTS
MAKE IT CLEAR THAT IT'S TOO
SOON. TELL US WHAT THE
CONSEQUENCES ARE?
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THE
QUESTION SENATOR MURRAY. AS I
HAVE SAID MANY TIMES WHAT WE
HAVE WORKED OUT IS A GUIDELINE
OF FRAME WORK AND
HOW YOU SAFELY
OPEN AMERICA AGAIN. THERE ARE
SEVERAL CHECKPOINTS OF THAT AND
THEN DEPENDING ON THE DYNAMICS
OF AN OUTBREAK IN THE REGION
AND
STATE AND CITY AND REGION
AND I
GET CONCERN IF THERE'S A
SITUATION AND SUCH THAT YOU'RE
NOT SEEING THAT GRADUAL OVER
14-DAY INCREASE THAT WOULD
ALLOW
YOU TO GO TO APHASE ONE AND THEN
IF YOU GO TO PHASE TWO AND
PHASE
THREE AND THEN I SAY GAIN THAT
THERE'S CONCERNS OF THE AREAS
AND CITY STATES AND JUMP OVER
THE VARIOUS CHECKPOINTS AND
PREMATURELY OPEN UP WITHOUT
HAVING THE CAPABILITY OF BEING
ABLE TO RESPOND AND EFFECTIVELY
AND WE WILL START TO SEE THE
LITTLE SPIKES THAT MIGHT TURN
IN
TO OUTBREAKS. I AM BEING VERY
CLEAR IN MY MESSAGE TO TRY TO
FOR THE BEST EXTENT POSSIBLE TO
GO BY THE GUIDELINES THAT ARE
WELL THOUGHT OUT AND.
>> SO IF THE COMMUNITY OR A
STATE OR REGION CAUSE NOT GO BY
THE GUIDELINES AND REOPENS, IF
CONSEQUENCES COULD BE PRETTY
DARK, CORRECT?
>> THE CONSEQUENCES COULD BE
REALLY SERIOUS PARTICULARLY,
AND
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT WE
SHOULD
PAY ATTENTION TO. THE STATES
EVEN IF THEY'RE DOING IT AS AN
APPROPRIATE PACE AND MANY OF
THEM ARE AND WILL AND MAINLY A
PACE THAT'S COMING IN TO IT AND
THE DYNAMIC OF THE OUTBREAK,
THEY HAVE IN PLACE ALREADY THE
CAPABILITY WHEN THERE'S CASES
AND THERE'S NO DOUBT EVEN UNDER
THE BEST OF THE CIRCUMSTANCES
WHEN YOU PULL BACK ON THE
MITIGATION, YOU WILL SEE SOME
CASES APPEAR. IT'S THE ABILITY
AND THE CAPABILITY OF
RESPONDING
TO THOSE CASES WITH GOOD
IDENTIFICATION AND ISOLATION
AND
CONTEXT TRACING. THAT THE WILL
DETERMINE WHETHER YOU CAN
CONTINUE TO GO FORWARD
AS YOU
TRY TO REOPEN AMERICA TEST NOT
ONLY DOING IT, BUT HAVING IN
PLACE THE CAPABILITY OF
RESPONDING WHEN
THE RETURN OF
THE INFECTIONS OCCUR.
>> THANK YOU. THAT'S CLEAR. IN
ORDER TO DO THAT
, WE HAVE TO
KNOW ABOUT TESTING. THE
ADMINISTRATIONS TESTS IS BY
DISREGARD FOR SYSTEMIC PROBLEMS
WITHIN THE SUPPLY CHAIN. LAST
WEEK AN AVERAGE OF 250,000
TESTS
A DAY WERE PERFORMED IN THE
UNITED STATES. THAT'S A SMALL
FRACTION OF WHAT WE NEED.
YESTERDAY, PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD
THE GAL TO SAY THAT WE
PREVAILED
ON TESTING IN A PRESS
CONFERENCE
THAT WAS FILLED WITH MY
INFORMATION AND DESTRUCTION.
DR. GIOR, PUBLIC HEALTH EXPERTS
DO NOT THINK THAT THE U.S. HAS
PREVAILED. I AM GLAD THAT MY
STATE OF WASHINGTON STATE WILL
MEET THE MAY AND JUNE. THIS
ADMINISTRATION HAS BEEN GIVEN US
BROKEN PROMISES ON THAT MORE
TESTING IS COMING AND IT DOES
NOT. WE KNOW THAT TESTING IS
GOING TO PERSIST LONG AND SO
I
WANT TO ASK YOU TODAY WILL THE
PLAN THAT'S NOW REQUIRED UNDER
THE PACKAGE THAT WAS JUST
PASSED
INSIDE OF THE LAW,
WILL THAT
PLAN ON TESTING INCLUDE TARGETS
FOR
TESTING CAPACITY AND
PROJECTION SHORTAGES.
>> THANK YOU FOR THAT QUESTION
AND STATEMENT SENATOR MURRAY.
YES, WE'RE AS WE STATED WE WILL
CONTINUE HAVE HAVE A WORK IN
PROCESS AS WE BUILD THE
CAPACITY. WE HAVE 12 MILLION
TESTS OVER THE NEXT FOUR WEEKS.
WE THINK THAT THE TARGETS WILL
BE GOOD IN MAY AND JUNE. AS DR.
FAUCI SAID WE HAVE TO BE
EVIDENCE BASE. WE EXPECT THE
TARGETS TO GO UP AS WE
PROGRESSIVELY OPEN IT AS THE
COMMUNITIES GO THROUGH PHASE
ONE
AND THEN IN TO PHASE TWO.
CERTAINLY THE NUMBERS WILL NEED
TO GO UP SIGNIFICANTLY AGAIN IN
THE FALL WHEN WE HAVE THE FLU
CIRCUMSTANCE LATING WITH COVID.
YES, THERE WILL BE TARGETS. THE
TARTHS WILL NEED TO CHANGE
BASED
ON THE EVIDENCE THAT WE SEE.
WE'RE HIGHLY COMMITTED TO
SECURING THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND
WE
WORK DAILY WITH THE
MANUFACTURER. I AM PLEASED THAT
WE'RE ABLE TO GET AHEAD OF THE
STATES AND WE CAN SUPPLY THEM
WHAT THEY NEED AND THEY HAVE
THE
ASSURANCES.
>> MY THING TO YOU IS WHEN YOU
PUT OUT THAT SPECIFIC PLAN THAT
YOU WERE REQUIRE TODAY DO, WE
WILL SEE NUMBERS THAT YOU'RE
GOING TO TELL US THAT YOU WILL
REACH AND TARGETED FOR TESTING
AND SUPPLY CHANGE CAPACITY AND
INSTEAD OF JUST SAYING THAT WE
HOPE TO HAVE A MILLION THIS
WEEK
AND NEXT WEEK, YOU WILL GIVE US
THE SPECIFIC TARGETS, CORRECT?
MA'AM, WE KNOW THE SPECIFICS
AMOUNT OF TESTS THAT WE HAVE
OVER THE SUMMER.
>> NOT HAVE BUT HOW MANY WE
NEED.
>> YES, MA'AM. WE HAVE THEM BY
WORK BEING THE STATES AND THE
CDC, SO THAT OVERALL IN MAY WE
WILL BE TESTING ABOUT 3.9% OF
THE U.S. POPULATION.
>> THAT'S FINE. WHAT I AM
TELLING YOU --
>> WE'RE OVER TIME SENATOR
MURRAY.
>> NOT HOW MANY WE WILL NEED BUT
IN THE COMING MONTHS SO THAT WE
CAN BE PREPARED TO HAVE THEM.
>> YES, MA'AM. NOT TO BE
REPETITIVE, BUT WE NEED TO BE
EVIDENCE IN DATA DRIVEN BECAUSE
WHAT WE MAY SEE IN MAY OR JUNE
IS GOING TO DRIVE THE
DIFFERENCES IN THE AMOUNT OF
TEST GOALS THAT WE HAVE. WE
REALLY JUST NEED TO BE VERY
HUMBLE ABOUT THIS AND LOOK AT
THE DATA. WE KNOW THAT THE
TESTING NEEDS WILL GO UP OVER
MAY AND JUNE AS WE
PROGRESSIVELY
OPEN. WE WILL DO OUR BEST TO
PREDICT THAT. WE HAVE TO SEE
WHAT THE DATA AND EVIDENCE
SHOWS
AT THAT TIME.
>> OKAY. I APPRECIATE THAT. MR.
CHAIRMAN AGAIN WHAT THE
PLAN
REQUIRES IS WHAT IS THE GOAL.
NOT HOW MUCH WE HAVE, BUT HOW
MANY WE NEED. THAT'S WHAT WE
WILL BE LOOKING FOR. THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, SENATOR MURRAY
.
FUTURE, TOO. I THINK THAT WE
HAVE EARNED A LOT. WE'RE
FIGHTING A VIRUS AT THE SAME
TIME AND THE SCIENTISTS ARE
LEARNING ABOUT IT. WE NEED TO
BE NIMBLE AND WE NEED TO BE
SURE
THAT WE'RE PREPARED FOR A
SECOND
WAVE OF OUTBREAKS THAT COULD
COINCIDE WITH THE START OF THE
FLU SEASON AND POTENTIALLY
STRESSING THE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
EVEN MORE THAN IT ALREADY HAS
BEEN.
>> I THANK YOU FOR THE COMMENTS
AND I THINK THAT THEY HAVE BEEN
COMFORTING ON WHAT HAS BEEN
DONE
AND WHAT CAN BE DONE. I AGREE
WITH SENATOR MURRAY THAT WE
NEED
TO HAVE SOME SPECIFIC GOALS. AS
AN ACCOUNTANT, THAT'S ONE OF
THE
THINGS THAT I'M LOOKING FOR.
DR. HAHN, THE CLINICAL PICTURE
OF COVID-19 CONTINUES TO
EVOLVE.
WHAT FIRST LOOKED LIKE A
RESPIRATORY ILLNESS SEEMS MORE
COMP REHENCIVE AND POTENTIALLY
AFFECTING THE BRAIN, KIDNEY AND
OTHER ORGANS, HOW DOES THIS
EVOLVING PICTURE IMPACT THE
CLINICAL OR SURROGATE REVIEW
OF
THE VACCINES AND TREATMENTS?
QUESTION. THE EVOLVING PICTURE
AND THE WAY THAT THIS IS
MANIFESTING AROUND
THE COUNTRY
CLINICALLY DOES IN FACT
WE HAVE
THE ACCELERATION PROGRAM AND
THE
TOP SCIENTISTS HAVE BEEN AT THE
TABLE CONSULT BEING THE
COLLEAGUES AT
NIH TO ADDRESS THE
QUESTIONS.
SOME PATIENT THAT IS
HAD SEVERE COVID-19 HAD
CLOTTING
EPISODES. WE PRIORITIZED THE
REVIEW OF THE AGENTS THAT WE
THINK MIGHT BE BENEFICIAL AND
THE CLINICAL END POINTS OF
THOSE
TRIALS ARE DIFFERENT THAN ONE
THAT'S A VIRAL WHERE DR. FAUCI
SAYS THAT WE'RE LOOKING AT A
TIME OF RECOVERY. WE WANT TO
ADAPT IT TO THE CIRCUMSTANCES
AS
WELL AS THE TYPE OF THERAPY
THAT'S PUT BEFORE US.
>> THANK YOU. ANOTHER QUESTION
TO DR. HAHN, WE HAVE MADE A LOT
OF PROGRESS IN THE VACCINE
DEVELOPMENT. THEY HAVE IDENTIFY
THAT HAD THE IS A SIGNIFICANT
GAP IN THE PANDEMIC
PREPAIDNESS.
WHAT HAS HHS DONE IN ADVANCE OF
THE POTENTIAL AND NATIONAL
DOCUMENTATION CAMPAIGN TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE HAVE SUFFICIENT
CAPACITY TO ADMINISTER THE
VACCINE?
>> THANK YOU FOR THAT QUESTION.
THIS IS A REALLY IMPORTANT
POINT. AS YOU MENTIONED, IT'S
NOT JUST ABOUT THE VACCINE OR
HOPEFULLY VACCINES THAT ARE
DEVELOPED. IT'S ALL ABOUT
THE -- IT'S ALSO ABOUT THE
SUPPLIES THAT ARE NEEDED AS
WELL
AS THE OPERATIONAL PLAN AS WELL
AS ADMINISTERING THE VACCINES.
THIS IS ALL IN THE GOVERNMENT
APPROACH. THERE'S A PROGRAM
THAT'S BEEN SET UP ABOUT THE
WARP SPEED AND THAT'S DR. FAUCI
AND THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
AS
WELL AS OTHER MEMBERS OF HHS
AND
DR. PETER FROM A SENATOR AND IS
HELPING TO COORDINATE AND
WORKING VERY CLOSELY WITH DR.
FAUCI AND THE TEAM. WE HAVE A
CHART TO LOOK FORWARD AND WHAT
ARE THE NECESSARY SUPPLY CHAIN
ISSUES AND NEEDLES, ET CETERA
ON
THE VARIOUS VACCINES THAT ARE
BEING DEVELOPED AND HOW MANY
TIMES THEY HAVE TO BE DEVELOP
AND THE ROOT OF THE
ADMINISTRATION. WE'RE LEANING
IN ON THE SUPPLY CHAIN TO
INSURE
WHEN A VACCINE IS READY GO, WE
WILL HAVE THE NECESSARY
SUPPLIES
TO ADMINISTER IT AND DO THE
VACCINATION.
>> THANK YOU. I HAVE A COUPLE
OF MORE QUESTIONS, BUT GAIN THE
CLOCK IS NOT VISIBLE THERE, SO
I
EXPECT THAT I AM AT MY TIME. I
WILL SUBMIT THOSE IN WRITING.
>> THANK YOU SENATOR.
>> SENATOR SANDERS.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH. LET ME
THANK ALL OF THE PANELISTS FOR
THE HARD WORK THAT THEY'RE
DOING
AND
FOR BEING WITH US TODAY.
AND WHO FIRED THE MEMBERS OF
THE
GOVERNMENT THAT WANTED TO ACT
AGGRESSIVELY AND THEN AMONG THE
OTHER THINGS AND THEN THE TIMES
THAT WE NEED THE INTERNATIONAL
COOPERATION AND THEN THE
FUNDING
FOR THE WORLD HEALTH
ORGANIZATION. LET ME ALSO SAY
THAT I THINK THAT
WE UNDERSTAND
THAT THE FACT S
FACTS AND THERE'S SOME
THAT AND THEN
THERE'S 50% HIGHER
THAN THAT.
GE SOME SAY THAT THE
NUMBER OF DEATHS ARE LIKELY
HIGHER THAN THOSE NUMBERS.
GIVEN THE SITUATION IN NEW YORK
CITY WHEN THEY WERE REALLY
STRAP
TODAY THE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
THAT THERE MAY HAVE BEEN PEOPLE
THAT DIED AT HOME WHO DID HAVE
COVID THAT WERE NOT COUNTED AS
COVID BECAUSE THEY NEVER REALLY
GOT TO THE HOSPITAL. A DIRECT
ANSWER TO THE QUESTION, I THINK
THAT YOU'RE CORRECT THAT THE
NUMBER IS LIKELY HIGHER. I
DON'T KNOW WHAT PERCENT HIGHER,
BUT ALMOST CERTAINLY IT'S
HIGHER.
>> DR. FAUCI, LET ME ASK YOU
THIS. IN THE TERRIBLE
PANDEMIC
OF 1918 THE VIRUS EXPLODED IN
THE FALL AND CAME BACK WITH A
SLAVEN GANZ. ARE WE FEARFUL
THAT IF WE DO NOT GET THE ACT
TOGETHER AS BAD AS THE
SITUATION
IS NOW, IT COULD BE WORSE IN
THE
FALL?
>> WELL, SENATOR, THANK YOU FOR
THAT QUESTION. IT'S A
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTION. I
THINK THAT THE POSSIBILITY DOES
EXIST. HOWEVER, THE REASON THAT
I SAY IS THAT THE WHEN YOU TALK
ABOUT WILL THIS VIRUS JUST
DISAPPEAR, AND AS I HAVE SAID
MANY TIMES, THAT'S NOT GOING TO
HAPPEN BECAUSE IT'S A HIGHLY
TRANS MISSABLE VIRUS. EVEN IF
WE GET THE BETTER CONTROL OVER
THE SINGLE MONTHS, IT'S LIKELY
THAT THERE WILL BE A VIRUS
SOMEWHERE ON THIS PLANET THAT
WILL
EVENTUALLY GET BACK TO US.
MY APPROACH OF A REBOUND FOR A
SECOND WAVE IN THE FALL IS THAT
IT'S CON SEIZABLE AND
IMPOSSIBLE
THAT IT'S GROG HAPPEN, AND B I
WOULD HOPE THAT BETWEEN NOW AND
THEN, GIVEN THE CAPABILITY OF
DOING THE
TESTING THAT YOU HEARD
FROM ADMIRAL GIOR AND THE
WORKFORCE THAT THE CDC UNDER DR.
REDFIELD THAT THEY'RE PUTTING
FORTH TO BE ABLE TO IDENTIFY
AND
ISOLATE CONTRACT TRACE, I HOPE
IF WE DO HAVE THE THREAT OF A
SECOND WAVE, WE WILL BE ABLE TO
DEAL WITH IT VERY AFFECTIVELY
TO
PREVENT IT FROM BECOMING AN
OUTBREAK NOT ONLY WORSE THAN NOW
BUT MUCH LESS.
>> OKAY. LET ME ASK. WE HAVE
HEARD A LOT
ABOUT THE VACCINES
AND OBVIOUSLY EVERYBODY IN
CONGRESS AND THIS COUNTRY WANTS
A VACCINE AND WE WANT IT AS
QUICKLY AS PAS SXBL AFFECTIVE AS
POSSIBLE. LET ME ASK THE
HONORABLE. IF GOD WILLING A
VACCINE IS DEVELOPED AND IF
WE'RE ABLE TO PRODUCE IT AS
QUICKLY AS WE ALL HOPE THAT WE
CAN, I WOULD IMAGINE THAT THE
VACCINE WOULD BE DISTRIBUTED TO
ALL PEOPLE FREE OF CHARGE. WE
WILL MAKE SURE THAT EVERYBODY
THAT NEEDS IT WILL GET IT
REGARDLESS OF THE INCOME, IS
THAT A FAIR ASSUMPTION?
>> SENATOR, I CERTAINLY HOPE SO.
FDA IS VERY COMMITTED TO MAKING
SURE THAT ALL POPULATIONS IN
THE
UNITED STATES ARE INCLUDED IN
THE CLINICAL TRIALS.
>> THAT'S NOT WHAT I'M ASKING.
WHAT I AM ASKING IS IF AND WHEN
THE VACCINE COMES, IT WON'T DO
SOMEONE ANY GOOD IF THEY DON'T
GET IT. IF THEY HAVE TO PAY A
SUM OF MONEY FOR IT IN ORDER TO
PROFIT FOR THE DRUG COMPANIES,
THAT WILL
NOT BE HELPFUL. YOU
GUARANTEEING THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE
TODAY THAT THE VACCINE IS
AVAILABLE TO ALL PEOPLE
REGARDLESS OF THE INCOME.
>> SO THAT'S NOT A
RESPONSIBILITY, BUT I'M GOING
TAKE THIS BACK TO THE TASK
FORCE. I SHARE THE CONCERN THAT
THIS NEEDS TO BE MADE AVAILABLE
TO EVERY AMERICAN.
>> DOES ANYONE ELSE WANT TO
COMMENT ON IT? DO YOU THINK
THAT WE SHOULD MAKE THE VACCINE
WHEN IT'S CREATED AVAILABLE TO
ALL RED'ARTLESS OF THE INCOME
OR
DO YOU THINK THAT THE HOMELESS
SHOULD NOT HAVE THE VACCINE.
YOU ASKING ME?
>> YES, I WAS.
>> NO, MY OFFICE IS ONE OF THE
OFFICES COMMITTED TO SERVING
THE
OWNS SERVED, AND WE NEED TO BE
ABSOLUTELY CERTAIN THAT IF A
VACCINE OR AN AFFECTIVE
PREVENTIVE IS
AVAILABLE, THAT IT
REACHES ALL SOCIETIES WHETHER
THEY'RE ABLE TO PAY.
>> GOOD. SO YOU'RE TELLING THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE TODAY THAT
REGARDLESS OF INCOME, EVERY
AMERICAN WILL BE ABLE TO GAIN
ACCESS TO THE VACCINE WHEN IT
COMES?
>> THEY SHOULD GAIN ACCESS TO
IT. I DON'T CONTROL --
>> WELL, YOU REPRESENTED THE
ADMINISTRATION THAT MAKES THE
DECISION.
>> I WILL CERTAINLY ADVOCATE
THAT EVERYBODY SHOULD BE ABLE
TO
RECEIVE THE VACCINE REGARDLESS
OF THE INCOME.
>> TIME-OUT SENATOR SANDERS.
>> THOSE ARE IMPORTANT
QUESTIONS. I DON'T WANT TO GET
THE SENATORS OFF, BUT IT'S HARD
TO SEE THE TIME CLOCK BUT IF WE
CAN STAY CLOSE AS POSSIBLE TO
FIVE MIGHT BES, THEN ALL
SENATORS CAN GET THE QUESTIONS
IN. THANK YOU SENATOR STAND
SANDERS.
>> THANK YOU AND THE WITNESSES
FOR WHAT YOU HAVE DONE FOR THE
PEOPLE IN THIS COUNTRY AND THE
SAFETY AND PEOPLE AROUND THE
GLOBE. LET ME ASK YOU BECAUSE
YOU HAVE BEEN IN THE TASK FORCE
AND AT A MAJORITY OF THE PRESS
CONFERENCES. HAS ANYONE ASKED
YOU OR ANY MEMBER TO TAKE THE
FOOT OFF THE GAS OF TRYING TO
FIND A CURE OR ANY TYPE OF
COUNTER MEASURE?
>> NO, SENATOR. NOT AT ALL AS A
MATTER OF FACT. WE HAVE BEEN
HERE FROM THE VERY BEGIN ASKING
PUT THE RIGHT FOOT ON THE
ACCELERATOR IN EVERY ASPECT AND
THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE
VACCINES.
AS I HAVE DESCRIBE IN THE
OPENING STATEMENT, WE ACTUALLY
START THAT HAD IN JANUARY AND
LITERALLY DAYS AFTER THE VIRUS
WAS KNOWN AND THE SEQUENCE
PUBLISHED. I HAVE NOT BEEN
KNOWN TO ANYONE TO PULL BACK ON
THE DEVELOPMENT OF ANY COUNTER
MEASURE OR THE BASIC AND
RESEARCH PROJECT THAT WE HAVE
BEEN INVOLVED IN.
>> THANK YOU DR. FAUCI. THIS IS
FOR DR. REDFIELD. WE HAVE
AUTHORIZED IN THIS COMMITTEE
MULTIPLE TIMES OVER THE LAST
DECADE THE MANLY FOR THE VIRUS,
AND YOU TALKED ACT IT. IN THE
PAST THREE YEARS FROM FY16 TO
FY20 THERE'S BEEN $23 MILLION A
YEAR AND WITH THE CARES ACT
IT'S
OVER A BILLION DOLLARS WITH THE
SURVEILLANCE. WE HAVE SEEN THE
PRIVATE SECTOR GO OUT AND USE
THE DATA AVAILABLE TO TRACK THE
PROGRESS AND THREAT OF
CORONAVIRUS AROUND THE WORLD.
WHY IS CDC NOT CONTRACT WITH
THE
PRIVATE SECTOR TECHNOLOGY
COMPANIES TO TRY TO USE THEIR
TOOLS FOR BIO SURVEILLANCE?
>> SENATOR, THANK YOU FOR THE
QUESTION. THIS IS A CRITICAL
ISSUE AS YOU KNOW AND ALSO
COMES
IN TO ONE OF THE CORE
CAPABILITIES THAT WE TALKED
ABOUT WITH THE DATA ANALYTICS
AND THEN THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
APPRECIATIVE IN THE FUNDING THAT
CONGRESS HAS GIVEN. I CAN TELL
YOU THAT THIS IS UNDER A
CRITICAL REVIEW NOW. WE DO HAVE
CONTRACTS WITH THE PRIVATE
SECTOR GROUPS TO TRY TO MAKE
THE
TYPE OF AVAILABILITY AND DATA
THAT WE HAVE SEEN IN FLORIDA
WITH ALL OF THE JURISDICTIONS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY AND THE
PROCESS OF MAKING THAT HAPPEN.
OF LAST YEAR WE AUTHORIZED TO
THE LEGISLATION AND THAT
AUTHORIZED AT THAT TIME 30 NEW
EMPLOYEES THAT THE CDC
SPECIFICALLY IN SURVEILLANCE.
NOW, I ASKED THE DOCTOR IN
MARCH
HOW MUCH OF THOSE 30 WERE
FILLED. SHE SAID ZERO.  AS OF
MID-APRIL, ZERO OF
THEM WERE
FILLED. HOW MANY OF THOSE 30
EMPLOYEES THAT THIS COMMITTEE
AUTHORIZED TO BRING ON IN THE
SURVEILLANCE AND HAS BEEN
FILLED
TODAY?
>> SIR, GAIN THANK YOU FOR THE
QUESTION. I KNOW THE STAFF HAS
BEEN IN DISCUSSION SINCE THE
TESTIMONY, AND I KNOW THAT
WE'RE
IN THE PROCESS OF CONTINUING
TO
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW
TO MOVE
THAT FORWARD.
>> I BROUGHT IT TO LIGHT IN THE
FIRST OF MARCH, AND NOW WE'RE
IN
THE MID-MAY. I AM HOPEFUL THAT
WE WILL NOT JUST TALK ABOUT THE
SURVEILLANCE BUT EXECUTE IT AND
FOCUS THE UNBELIEVABLE AMOUNT
OF
MONEY THAT WE HAVE PROVIDED FOR
YOU THAT THEY WILL SHOW
SOME
BENEFIT TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
DR. FAUCI, LET ME GO BACK TO
YOU. THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AND
HOPEFULLY PEOPLE AROUND THE
WORLD HAVE WHAT YOU FIND AND
THE
EVENTUALLY LICENSE OF THE
PRODUCT. WHAT ARE THE BIGGEST
UNKNOWNS WITH THIS PA PARTICULAR
VIRUS
.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH. WELL,
THERE'S A COUPLE OF THINGS THAT
ARE IN ALL VACCINE
DEVELOPMENTS.
AS YOU KNOW BECAUSE WE HAVE
DISCUSSED THIS MANY TIMES IN
THE
PAST YOU CAN HAVE MANY THINGS
IN
PLACE, AND YOU DO NOT REDUCE
THE
IMMUNE RESPONSE AND IT TURNS
OUT
TO BE PROTECTED. ONE OF THE BIG
UNKNOWNS IS THAT IT'S
AFFECTIVE.
I AM OPTIMISTIC THAT WE WILL GET
A SIGNAL. THE OTHER THING
THAT'S UNKNOWN THAT A CONCERN IS
THAT WE CAN GET AROUND IT BY
DOING THE TEST PROPERLY IS THAT
YOU GET AN ENHANCEMENT AFFECT.
THERE'S
A NUMBER OF VIX SEEN S SEENS
AND WHEN A PERSON GETS
EXPOSED,
THEY HAVE AN ENHANCE ED
ENHANCED AND WE
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT IT DOES
NOT HAPPEN. PUTTING THOSE
THINGS TOGETHER I FEEL
OPTIMISTIC THAT WE WILL HAVE A
CANDIDATE THAT WILL GET
SOME
DEGREE OF ITHACA SI.
AND THEN A PATH WAY TO
ACCESS THE ONE VACCINE AGAINST
THE OTHER AND THEN A MASTER
PROTOCOL THAT ALLOWS FOR A
COMMON CONTROL GROUP AND THEN
ASSESSMENTS OF THE COMMON END
POINTS AND THAT ALLOWS IT AS
POSSIBLE
FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF
THE VACCINE
SGL SGL IN THE STATE
OF INCOME THIS CAN THEY STARTED
TO PUB LA SIZE THE NUMBERS AND
THOSE THAT HAD THE CORONAVIRUS
AND HAVE RECOVERED AND
IT'S MY
HOPE THAT NATIONAL LY
NATIONALLY CONSCIOUS I
YIELD BACK.
>> THANK YOU SENATOR BIRD.
SENATOR CASEY.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE HEARING AND
THE SENATOR RANKING. I WANT TO
START TODAY WITH A QUESTION
REGARDING THE NURSING HOME AND
IN PARTICULAR ACROSS THE STATE
LIKE OURS WE HAVE AS YOU KNOW
AT
LAST COUNT AT 57,000 CASES AND
THEN THE NUMBER OF DEATHS HAVE
COMMON ABOVE 300,000 AND A
LOT
OF THOSE DEATHS ARE IN
THE DEBT
OF A RESIDENCE IN A NURSING
HOME
OR WORKER. I WANT TO START
TODAY WITH A QUESTION FOR DR.
REDFIELD. DOCTOR, WHEN WE
CONSIDER THIS CHALLENGE IN OUR
LONG TERM CARE FACILITY, WHEN
WE
LOOK AT THE NUMBER OF THE
DEATHS
IN THE NURSES HOMES, I THINK
THAT A LOT OF THE FAMILIES WANT
BASIC TRANSPARENCY AND THAT'S
ONE OF THE REASONS WHY THE
SENATOR AND I SENT YOU A LETTER
DATED APRIL 2ND AND IT WAS
DIRECTED TO YOU AS WELL AS THE
ADMINISTRATOR TO THE CENTERS ON
THE MEDICARE AND MEDICAID
SERVICES AND IN THAT WE ASKED
FOR BASIC INFORMATION ON WHAT
THEY WERE DOING TO ATTRACT THE
OUTBREAKS OF THE NURSING HOMES
AND PROVIDE THE INFORMATION AND
THE BASIC INFORMATION TO
FAMILIES AND RESIDENCE AND THE
FAMILIES OF RESIDENCE AND IN
THE
NURSES HOMES AND THEN THE
WORKERS AS WELL AS TO THE
COMMUNITY AND PUBLIC HEALTH
PROFESSIONALS. NOW, IT TOOK YOU
ABOUT A MONTH TO RESPOND TO
THAT. IN YOUR RESPONSE, YOU DID
NOT GIVE US ANY INFORMATION ON
THE TIMELINE. THESE FAMILIES
NEED THIS INFORMATION. NOW,
WE'RE TOLD BY THE CMF
ADMINISTRATOR AFTER PRESSING THE
SENATOR THAT THIS INFORMATION
MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE UNTIL THE
END OF MAY. I NEED TO HEAR FROM
YOU TODAY WHY HAS THERE BEEN A
DELAY A THREE MONTH DELAY IN
THE
BASIC INFORMATION THAT FAMILIES
AND PEOPLE WITHIN A COMMUNITY
NEED ABOUT THE OUT BREAKS IN
THE
NURSING HOME
AND THE NUMBER OF
CASE S
CASES.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH, SENATOR.
YOU HAVE HIGHLIGHTED THE
TRAGEDIES THAT YOU
HAVE
EXPERIENCED TOGETHER AND CLEAR
LY
CLEARLY.
>> THEY'RE REQUIRED TO REPORT
THE CASES IN THE INDIVIDUALS
THAT ARE PATIENTS THERE OR
STAFF
TO THE CDC AND SECONDLY, THERE
WAS A POLICY IN PLACE AT ALL
NURSING HOMES THAT ARE REQUIRED
TO NOTIFY THE MEMBERS OF THAT
NURSING HOME OF THE EXISTENCE
OF
THE COVID IN THE NURSING HOME
AND INCLUDING FAMILY MEMBERS
AND
VERIFYING IN TERMS OF WHEN THAT
AND IF THAT'S OPERATIONAL AS OF
TODAY OR NEXT WEEK.
I WILL GET BACK TO YOU WITH
THAT. ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT
THINGS THAT WE HAVE TALKED
ABOUT
THE KEY AND REOPENING AND AS
TONY MENTIONED IT'S A
SYSTEMATIC
CASE AND WE NEED TO DO THE
CONTACT TRACING. THE OTHER
THING THAT WE REALLY NEED TO DO
IS DO SURVEILLANCE AND THIS
VIRUS DOES APPEAR TO HAVE THE
HIGH CAPACITY FOR THE HIGH
INFECTION AND THAT MEANS FOR THE
ADDITIONAL WAYS OF IDENTIFYING
THE CASES IS GOING TO BE
BLUNTED. SO WE'RE DEVELOPING A
NATIONAL SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM
AND
FIRST AND MOST IMPORTANT IS TO
DO THE APPREHENSIVE
SURVEILLANCE
IN ALL OF THE NURSING HOME IN
THE STATE AND THE CDC IS DOING
THAT IN PAR NER SHIP WITH THE
STATE AND LOCAL HEALTH
DEPARTMENTS. I THINK THAT'S
GOING TO BE THE RESPONSIBILITIES
TO DO THAT WITHIN THE CLINICS
THAT ARE SELECTED AND THEN THIS
IS CRITICAL. WE GET IN FRONT OF
THIS AND DO COMPREHENSIVE
SURVEILLANCE
I WILL GOAT BACK TO
YOU. I AM PRETTY CONFIDENT AND
I NEED TO DOUBLE CHECK JUST TO
MAKE SURE BECAUSE I KNOW THAT
THEY HAVE ANNOUNCED THAT
THEY'RE
ALL REPORT TO GO THE CDC NOW IN
THE INFECTION AND WORKERS OR
PATIENTS AND THAT THEY ARE
REQUIRED NOW TO NOTIFY OTHER
MEMBERS IN THE NURSING HOME AS
WELL AS THE FAMILY MEMBERS OF
THAT WHEN COVID
IS IN ONE OF
THOSE.
>> I WANTED TO ASK YOU IN THE
TESTIMONY EARLIER WITH SENATOR
MURRAY, YOU OUTLINED A BASIC
CONCERN THAT YOU HAVE WITH
REGARD TO THE STATES REOPENING.
CAN YOU RESTATE THAT
FOR US?
>> YES.
AND THEN PULLING BACK
ON THE MITIGATION. I FEEL IF
THAT OCCURS, THERE'S A REAL
RISK
IN THE OUTBREAK AND TRYING TO BE
ABLE TO CONTROL AND
THAT'S WHAT
WILL SET YOU BACK
AND THEN TO
TURN THE CLOCK BACK RATHER THAN
GOING FORWARD. THAT'S
THE MAJOR
CONCERN, SENATOR. SENATOR PAUL.
>> DR. FAUCI, SCIENTISTS HAVE
SHONE THAT MONKEYS THAT ARE
INFECTED WITH COVID-19 CANNOT BE
REINFECTED. SEVERAL STUDIES
HAVE ALSO SHONE THAT PLASMA FROM
REINFECTED PATIENTS NEUTRALIZES
THE LAB EXPERIMENTS. IN
ADDITION, THE FUSION IS BASED
ON
THE IDEA THAT THE RECOVERING
AND
THEN YET THE MEDIA CONTINUES TO
REPORT THAT THERE'S NO EVIDENCE
THAT PATIENTS THAT SURVIVE THE
CORONAVIRUS HAVE IMMUNITY. I
THINK ACTUALLY THE TRUTH IS THE
OPPOSITE. WE HAVE NO EVIDENCE
THAT THEY DO NOT HAVE THE
IMMUNITY AND A GREAT DEAL OF THE
EVIDENCE
IS SUGGESTING THAT THEY
DO.
AND THEY WILL NOT GET IT
AGAIN AND THAT THERE'S NO
EVIDENCE OF IMMUNITY. YOU SAID
THAT THE SURVIVORS HAVE SOME
FORM OF IMMUNITY. CAN YOU HELP
TO SET THE RECORD STRAIGHT THAT
THE RECORD AS IT'S BEING ACHYME
LATIVE THAT IT LIKELY LEADS TO
THE IMMUNITY.
>> YEAH, THANK YOU FOR THE
QUESTION SENATOR. YOU'RE
CORRECT AND I HAVE SAID THAT
GIVEN WHAT WE KNOW ON T
FOR OTHER
WORKPLACES?
EXAMPLE
OF
CAN
SAY
THAT EACH PRIVATE OR I
DEPENDENT
SCHOOL WORKS WITH THE
STATE
SEEMS A WASTED EFFORT. I SAY
THAT
BECAUSE THEY PLAY A ROLE.
MISUNDERSTOOD. WHEN I WAS
TALKING OF THE DIFFERENCES, I
WAS THINKING OF A HIGH SCHOOL
AND COLLEGE IN TERMS OF HOW
WE
DO THE TRADE SCHOOL.
THE
RISK OF REOPENING PREMATURE LY
MATURELY
AND 23409 HAVING ACCESS TO THE
INFORMATION THAT'S GOING TO
HAVE
IT FORM AND THEN THERE'S ANY
SORT OF RISK BENEFIT FOR THE
CHILD? YES, THEY'RE AT RISK,
BUT THEY'RE AT RISK FOR MISSING
OUT ON A YEAR OF EDUCATION FOR
THE BACKGROUND. I AM LESS
CONCERNED WITH THE INTENTION.
>>
WHAT ARE THE THOUGHTS ON
THAT?
SCHOOL. I DO NOT HAVE AN
EASY
ANSWER TO THAT. AS WE GET IN TO
THE PERIOD OF THE TIME WITH THE
FALL OF REOPENING THE SCHOOLS
AND EXACTLY WHERE WE WOULD BE
IN
THE OUTBREAK. I MAY POINT OUT
WHAT I HAVE ELUDED TO SOME OF
THE QUESTIONS THAT WE HAVE A
VERY LASHLG COUNTRY AND THE
DYNAMICS OF THE OUTBREAKS ARE
DIFFERENT IN DIFFERENT REGIONS
OF THE COUNTRY. I WOULD IMAGINE
THAT THE SITUATIONS WITH THE
SCHOOLS ARE VERY DIFFERENT IN A
REGION VERSES ANOTHER. IT'S NOT
GOING TO BE UNIVERSITY. I DO
NOT HAVE A GOOD EXPLANATION OR
SOLUTION TO THE PROBLEM ON WHAT
HAPPENS WHEN YOU CLOSE THE
SCHOOLS AND IT TRIGGERS THE
CASCADE OF EVENTS AND COULD
HAVE
THE CIRCUMSTANCES.
>> MR. CHAIRMAN, I WILL CLOSE BY
ASKING THE PERMISSION OF THE
CHAIR TO SUBMIT FOR THE RECORD
ARTICLE THAT JUST CAME OUT IN
THE JOURNAL NURSING THAT
CHILDREN ARE AT RISK FOR
COVID-19.
>> THAT WILL BE INCLUDED. THANK
YOU, SENATOR. SENATOR
WARREN.
>> THANK YOU
, MR. CHAIRMAN AND
THE WITNESSES FOR BEING HERE
TODAY. I HOPE THAT EVERYBODY IS
STAYING SAFE AND HEALTHY. IN
THE PAST 16 WEEKS OF A
1.3 MILLION AMERICANS HAVE BEEN
INFECTED WITH CORONAVIRUS. WE
NOW KNOW THAT 80,000 PEOPLE
HAVE
DIED AND 33 MILLION PEOPLE WERE
OUT OF WORK. DR. FAUCI, YOU
HAVE COMPRISED SIX PRESIDENTS
AND YOU HAVE BATTLED THE
VIRUSES
FOR THE ENTIRE CAREER. I JUST
LIKE TO HEAR THE HONEST
OPINION.
DO
WE HAVE THE CORONAVIRUS
CONTAINED?
>> SENATOR, THANK YOU FOR THE
QUESTION. IF YOU THINK THAT WE
HAVE IT UNDER CONTROL, WE DO
NOT. IF YOU LOOK AT THE
DYNAMICS AND SEEING THE
HOSPITALIZATIONS AND THE
INFECTIONS AND IN SOME PLACES
SEISM AS NEW YORK CITY AND THEN
THAT'S THE PLATEAU COMING DOWN.
IN OTHER PARTS OF THE COUNTRY
WE'RE SEEING THE SPIKES WHICH
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE DYNAMICS
OF
THE NEW CASES EVEN THOUGH SOME
ARE COMING DOWN, IT LOOKS FLAT
WITH THE SLIGHT COMING DOWN. I
THINK WE'RE GOING TO GO IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION. THE RIGHT
DIRECTION DOES NOT MEAN THAT WE
HAVE BY ANY MEANS HAVE TOTAL
CONTROL OF THE ROUTE BREAK.
>> SO THE DIRECTION AS I
UNDERSTAND IT WE HAVE 25,000
NEW
INFECTIONS A DAY AND OVER 2000
DEATHS A DAY. I THINK THAT'S
THE RIGHT NUMBERS. SOME ARE
ESTIMATING WE COULD BE AT
200,000 NEW CASES A DAY BY
JUNE,
IS THAT RIGHT DR. FAUCI?
>> I DON'T FORESEE THAT AS
200,000 NEW CASES BY JUNE. I AM
HOPING AND LOOKING AT THE
DYNAMICS STARTING TO FLATTEN
OFF
AND COME DOWN THAT WE WOULD BE
MUCH BETTER THAN THAT, SENATOR.
>> JUST SO THAT YOU UNDERSTAND
WE'RE AT 2000 NEW INFECTIONS A
DAY AND 25,000 INFECTIONS A DAY
AND 2000 DEATHS A DAY.
>> LET ME JUST ASK. WE KNOW
THAT IT'S POSSIBLE TO HAVE THE
VIRUS UNDER BETTER CONTROL.
OTHER COUNTRIES HAVE DONE DONE
IT. WE'RE THREE MONTHS IN, AND
WE HAVE CONTINUED TO SET
RECORDS. YOU SAID THAT THE
SECOND WAVE WAS INEVITABLE.
AND
YOU SHOULD DO REASONABLY WELL.
YOU IDENTIFIED WITH THE THINGS
AND
AND THIS IS THE QUOTE OF
WE'RE IN IT FOR A BAD FALL AND
WINTER. WE'RE ABOUT 16 WEEKS
AWAY FROM LABOR DAY, THAT'S
ABOUT THE SAME LENGTH OF TIME
THIS VIRUS WAS FIRST DETECTED
HERE IN THE U.S. DON'T YOU HAVE
ENOUGH ROBUST COUNTER MEASURES
IN PLACE THAT WE
DO NOT HAVE TO
WORRY ABOUT
.
>> WITH REGARD TO TESTING AND
OTHER ELEMENTS AND THEN THE
PROJECTION IS BY THE TIME WE GET
TO THE END OF THE SUMMER AND
THEN EARLY FALL, THAT WE WILL
HAVE THAT IN PLACE.
>> WE ARE PROJECTING WHAT IS IN
PLACE. LET ME JUST ASK THE
OTHER SIDE OF THIS. IF WE DON'T
DO BETTER ON TESTING AND
CONTACT
TRACING AND ON THE SOCIAL
DISTANCING, WILL DEATHS FROM THE
CORONAVIRUS NECESSARILY
INCREASE?
>> IF YOU DO NOT DO AFTERNOON
ADEQUATE RESPONSE, WE WILL HAVE
THE CONSEQUENCE OF MORE
INFECTIONS AND MORE DEATHS.
THAT'S THE REASON THAT YOU
QUOTED ME QUIET CORRECTLY.
EVERYTHING THAT YOU SAY, AND I
WILL STAND BY THAT. IF WE DO
NOT RESPOND IN AN ADEQUATE WAY
WHEN THE FALL COMES, GIVEN THAT
IT'S WITHOUT A DOUBT THAT THERE
WILL BE INFECTIONS THAT WILL BE
IN THE COMMUNITY, THEN WE RUN
THE RISK OF HAVING THE RESIR
JANETS. I AM HOPING AT THAT
POINT IN TIME IN THE FALL THAT
WE HAVE MORE THAN ENOUGH TO
RESPOND TO ADEQUATE. IF WE
DON'T, THERE'S GOING TO BE
PROBLEMS.
>> I APPRECIATE THE HOPE. I
WISH THAT WE COULD TELL THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE THAT THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT HAS THIS PANDEMIC
UNDER CONTROL, BUT WE CAN'T.
AND THE PRESIDENT NEEDS TO STOP
SAYING THAT IF HE IGNORES BAD
NEWS, IT WILL GO AWAY.
.
>> AND THAT'S BETWEEN FOUR AND
FIVE AND THEN THAT'S NOT AS WE
HOPE TO RECEIVE AND AS WE HAVE
BEEN
SAID BY ONE OF THE
WITNESSES AND AS THE
RELATIONSHIP WITH CHINA IS SUCH
THAT EVEN THE FIRST BREAK
THROUGH WITH THE REGARD TO CHINA
SEEMS TO BE ON HOLD NOW. THAT'S
ANOTHER PRESENT AND THIS IS
GOING ON FIVE OR SIX YEARS
WHERE
THE PRICES ARE BELOW THE
REDUCTION. IN THE RESULTS THE
CONSUMERS ARE SEEING THAT FOOD
DOES NOT COME FROM GROCERY
STORES. I AM VERY WORRIED THAT
THE HARM TO HAVE VALUE CHAIN IS
VERY REAL AND NOT TO MENTION
THE
FINANCIAL SITUATION THAT IS THE
FARMERS AND RANCHERS AND
GROWERS
DO. HAVING SAID THAT.  ADMIRAL,
YOU SPOKE ABOUT THE
IMPORTANCE
OF THE TESTS THAT ARE
AVAILABLE.
THE FIVE PACKING PLANT THAT IS
WE HAVE IN KANSAS, IF WE GET A
RAPID TEST AND WE CAN GET IT AS
WE ASK FOR IT BECAUSE OF THE
HOT
SPOTS THAT ARE DEVELOPING NOT
ONLY IN KANSAS BUT GOING TO THE
VALUE CHAIN, THAT WOULD BE
ABSOLUTELY WONDERFUL. WOULD YOU
SPEAK TO THIS, SIR?
>> YEAH, THANK YOU, SENATOR.
BOTH DOCTOR REDFIELD AND I HAVE
BEEN VERY ACTIVELY INVOLVED IN
GETTING STRATEGIES FOR THE
INDUSTRY PARTICULARLY IN KANSAS.
WE ARE SUPPLYING THE PUBLIC
HEALTH LAB WITH RAPID
DIAGNOSTICS AS WELL AS SURGING
THEM TO THE AREAS LIKE THAT.
THE ONE TRADE OFF HOWEVER, IS
THAT THE RAPID -- THE RAPID
POINT OF THE CARE IS VERY SLOW.
EACH MACHINE CAN ONLY DO FOUR
PER HOUR, AND THAT'S VERY SLOW.
IT'S A MIX OF TESTING THAT YOU
NEED FOR THOSE KIND OF
SITUATIONS ON SORT OF THE TESTst
THAT IS AVAILABLE AT A MAJOR
LAB
AND A REQUEST LAB
& FROM AND
& WE'RE
DOING THIS AND THAT'S THE RAPID
SLOW
TEST AND I FOR ONE AND
& THEN
THE HOPE IS AND THEN WE
DO HAVE
THE PLANS AND THEN AS THEY
DESCRIBE BY DR. FAUCI AND I
THINK IT WILL BE UPRIGHT. THIS
IS A TOUGH GO. I HAVE TO TELL
YOU THAT IN TERMS OF
AGRICULTURE, WE'RE NOT IN GOOD
SHAPE. I APPRECIATE EVERYBODY
AND THE JOB THAT YOU'RE DOING.
WE WILL STAND BESIDE YOU WHEN
YOU'RE TAKING THE BOOS AND
BEHIND YOU WHEN YOU'RE TAKING
THE APPLAUSE.
>> THANK YOU SENATOR ROBERTS.
>> THANK YOU MR. CHAIRMAN AND
WITNESSES FOR CALLING THE
IMPORTANT HEARING. THE LAST
TIME THAT DR. FAUCI
AND HAHN
WERE BEFORE US WAS IN APRIL.
THE CHART HERE WAS IN THE
UNITED
STATES AND SOUTH KOREA IN THREE
DAYS. BOTH EXPERIENCED THE
FIRST CASE AND THOSE WERE SENTLY
IDENTICAL. ON MARCH 3RD WHEN
THE WITNESSES WERE LAST YEAR,
SOUTH KOREA HAD 28 DEATHS AND
THEY EXPERIENCED NINE. AGAIN,
THE ECONOMIES OF BOTH NATIONS
BY
THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATES WERE
NEARLY IDENTICAL. NOW, THE
STORY CHANGES.
AS OF YESTERDAY, MORE THAN
81,000 AMERICANS HAVE DIED. THE
U.S. ECONOMY HAS EXPERIENCED
JOB
LOSSES NOT SEEN SINCE THE GREAT
DEPRESSION. MEANWHILE, THE
ECONOMY OF SOUTH KOREA HAS NOT
CHANGED AT ALL. THE DEATH TOLL
IS AT 256. SOUTH KOREA IS
SMALLER THAN THE UNITED STATES
AND ONE SIX OF THE POPULATION.
EVEN IF YOU BULK UP TO TOLL FOR
THE PER CAPITA IS MORE THAN 45
TIMES THE RATE IN SOUTH KOREA.
THE HEALTH CARE AREA HERE IS
CAUSING A NEAR DEPRESSION WHILE
SOUTH KOREA HAS PROTECTED THE
ECONOMY BY MANAGING CORRECTLY.
I COULD HAVE DONE THIS WITH
OTHER NATIONS. THE U.S. HAS THE
SEVENTH HIGHEST IN THE WORLD.
THE DEATH RATE IS OFF THE
CHARTS
HIGHER IN INDIA AND AWES TRILL
YEAH AND JAPAN AND MEXICO. IT'S
NEARLY THREE TIMES THE DEATH
RATE IN GERMANY AND TWICE THE
HIGHEST. THE QUESTION IS WHY.
IF WE WANT TO OPEN
UP, WE HAVE
TO LEARN THE NATIONS THAT HAVE
MANAGED US WELL. HERE ARE THE
THINGS THAT DO NOT EXPLAIN THE
DIFFERENCE. AND OUR HEALTH CARE
PROVIDERS HEROS ARE AS GOOD OR
BETTER AS SOUTH KOREA. THE
RESEARCH CAPACITY IS GOOD OR
BETTER THAN SOUTH KOREA. WE
HAVE MORE RESOURCES THAN SOUTH
KOREA. IT'S 12 TIMES THE SOUTH
KOREA AND THEN 50% HIGHER. TO
DR. FAUCI, THE DEATH RATE IN
THE
UNITED STATES ESPECIALLY WHEN
COMPARED WITH OTHER
NATIONS IS
UNACCEPTABLE, ISN'T IT?
RATE IN ACCEPTABLE.
>> AND THE EXPERIENCE OF OTHER
NATIONS SHOW THAT THE U.S.
DEATH
RATE IS NOT ONLY UNACCEPTABLE,
BUT IT'S UNNECESSARY, ISN'T
THAT
CORRECT?
>> I DON'T KNOW IF WE CAN SAY
THAT, SENATOR.
>> WOULD YOU SAY THAT THE U.S.
HAS TO DO BETTER? ALWAYS.  YOU
HAVE TO DO BETTER
.
>> AND THE EXPERIENCE IN SOUTH
KOREA SHOWS HOW THEY MANAGE THE
CRISIS AND THEN THAT'S ON THE
ECONOMIC CONDITION, ISN'T THAT
THE CASE?
>> THAT IS THE CASE, SIR. I
UNDERSTAND WHERE YOU'RE GOING
WITH THIS. I HAVE TO TELL YOU
THAT THERE'S A BIG DIFFERENCE
IN
SOUTH KOREA AND THE UNITED
STATES AND THE OUTBREAK.
>> AND LET ME GET TO THAT. I
WANT TO GET TO THE FACTORS THAT
DO EXPLAIN THE DIFFERENCE SINCE
WE KNOW IT'S NOT THE RESOURCES
OR THE HEALTH PROVIDE OVERS.
FIRST IS TESTING. SOUTH KOREA
BEGAN AGGRESSIVE TESTING MUCH
EARLIER THAN THE U.S. NOW, WE
SURPASSED SOUTH KOREA IN THE
TESTING. IN THE CRITICAL MONTH
OF MARCH, SOUTH KOREA WAS
TESTING THE POPULATION AT A
RATE
OF 40 TIMES THE
TESTING IN THE
UNITED STATES. WHEN WE GET TO
CEMENT, THE UNITED STATES NEEDS
TO DO 40 TO 50 MILLION TESTS A
MONTH TO BE SAFE. THAT EQUATES
TO 1.3 MILLION TO 1.37 MILLION
TESTS A DAY. YESTERDAY WE DID
395,000 TESTS. WE HAVE A LONG
WAY TO GO. A SECOND FACTOR IS
CONTRACT TRACING. SOUTH KOREA
EMBRACED A CONTRACT TRACING AND
THE PROGRAM RIGHT FROM THE
BEGINNING. THE UNITED STATES
STILL HAS NOT ENGAGE IN A
NATIONAL CONTACT
TRACING
PROGRAM, ISN'T THAT RIGHT? IS
THAT DR. FAUCI OR DR. REFIELD?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT'S BEST
DIRECT TODAY THE CDC.
>> WHEN THE OUTBREAK STARTED,
SIR, WE HAD AN AGGRESSIVE
CONTRACT TRACING PROGRAM.
UNFORTUNATELY THAT'S THE
CAPACITY AND THEN MITIGATIONS
AND THEN WE LOST THE
CONTAINMENT
AND THAT'S CLEARLY --
>> AND THAT WAS KEY THE ECONOMY
AS WELL. SOUTH KOREA DID THE
TESTING AND PROTECT AND SERVE
AND WE DID NOT HAVE TO DO THE
SHUT DOWN. SOCIAL DISTANCING IS
A THIRD ONE AND FINALLY THE
LAST
ONE, THE HEALTH CARE SYSTEMS.
WOULD YOU AGREE THAT IT HELPS
TO
KEEP THE PEOPLE SAFE FROM
SERIOUS CONDITIONS OR THE DEATH
OF COVID-19 IF THEY
HAVE ACCESS
TO HEALTH CARE?
>> YES, OF COURSE THAT'S THE
CASE. 97% OF THE POPULATION HAD
HEALTH INSURANCE. BEFORE
COVID-19, MILLIONS DID NOT HAVE
IT AND LACKED THE ACCESS THE
HEALTH CARE. THE MASSIVE JOB
LOSS IN THE LAST MONTHS
THREATENED TO TAKE IT AWAY FROM
MILLIONS MORE AND PRESIDENT
TRUMP IS DOING ALL THAT HE CAN
TO DISMANTLE THE AFFORDABLE
CARE
ACT AND THAT'S GOING TAKE IT
AWAY FROM
TENS OF MILLIONS OF
MORE.
>> CAN I MAKE A CLARIFICATION.
I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY THAT I
DID PROJECT THAT WE WILL HAVE
THE ABILITY TO PERFORM 40 TO 50
MILLION TESTS A MONTH IN THAT
TIME FRAME. I SAID IF NEEDED AT
THAT TIME, I AM NOT MAKING A
PROCLAMATION. WE HAVE TO REALLY
UNDERSTAND WHERE THE EPIDEMIC
IS, WHAT THE COMMUNITY SPREAD
IS
BEFORE WE CAN ESTIMATE THE
NUMBER OF TESTS NEEDED. I WAS
SIMPLY STATING THE FACT THAT
THE
COMBINATION OF THE TESTING
CAPABILITIES WILL BE AT THE
LEVEL AND EVEN BARING NEW IN
PUT
FROM THE NIH.
>> THANK YOU, VERY MUCH, SENATOR
CANE.
>> THANK YOU, MR. CHAIRMAN AND
GENTLEMEN, THANK YOU FOR BEING
HERE THIS MORNING VIRTUALLY AND
FOR ALL OF YOU AND WHAT YOU'RE
DOING FOR THE MANY MONTHS. .
ALASKA IS DOING OKAY, AND WE
WANT TO KEEP IT THAT WAY. WE
KNOW THAT WE HAVE A GEOGRAPHY
THAT'S CHALLENGING, AND WE KNOW
THAT WE HAVE FACILE AT AS THAT
ARE LIMITED. IN THE LAST
HEARING WE HAD THE OPPORTUNITY
TO HEAR FROM DR. COLLINS, AND
HE
SHARED WHERE THEY ARE WITH THE
RED X AND
ALSO SPOKE TO RED X UP
UP. I EDUCATED HIM ON THE
COMMUNITY THAT'S GETTING READY
TO OPEN HIS
SALMON FISHERY IN
TWO DAY S DAYS AND THEN THE
GOOD NEWS
ON THAT IS THAT THE PROTOCOLS
THAT WE HAVE PUT IN PLACE SEEM
TO BE WORKING. THE QUARANTINE
AND ISOLATION. NOT ONLY FOR
THAT INDIVIDUAL BUT FOR OTHERS
THAT HE HAD COME IN CONTACT
WERE
SECURE. I WANT TO RECOGNIZE.  I
WANT TO RECOGNIZE THE
ADD MIDGE
ADMINISTRATION AND WE'RE IN THE
STATE AT THIS MOMENT AND THE
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER FOR THE
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
GOING OUT TO RURAL COMMUNITIES
TO REALLY BETTER UNDERSTAND OUR
VULNERABLES AND GOING TO SOME
OF
THE FISHING COMMUNITIES TO
AGAIN
UNDERHOW WE CAN SUCCESSFULLY
PROSECUTE WHEN YOU HAVE TO
BRING
THE WORKERS IN FROM THE OUTSIDE.
WE THANK YOU FOR THE ASSISTANCE
WITH
REGARDS TO ADDITIONAL
TESTING CAPACITY.
ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT I WANT TO HAVE
CLARIFIED AND THIS IS FOR YOU
BECAUSE YOU HAVE BEEN SO
HELPFUL
IN SHINING THE LIGHT ON WHAT WE
NEED TO DO IN THE RURAL AREAS,
BUT SO MUCH OF THE FOCUS HAS
BEEN ON HOT SPOTS AND
RESPONDING
TO THE HOT
SPOTS. HOW DO YOU
KEEP
THE STELLATAE GEE IS THAT
WE JUST LOCK IT OFF. THE TRAVEL
RESTRICTIONS THAT ARE IN PLACE
ARE APPARENTLY WORKING, BUT
THEY'RE ALSO -- THEY'RE ALSO
DEVASTATING THE ECONOMY WHETHER
IN TOURISM, WHETHER IT'S OUR
RESOURCE INDUSTRIES OR WHETHER
IT'S THE POTENTIAL FOR THE
FISHERIES. IF YOU MAY SPEAK TO
THAT ASPECT OF THAT, AND THEN I
HAVE A VERY IMPORTANT QUESTION
AS IT RELATES TO CONTACT
TRACING
THAT I WOULD LIKE TO DIRECT TO
EITHER ADMIRAL GIOR OR DR.
REDFIELD.
>> THANK YOU, SENATOR. AS YOU
KNOW, YOU HAVE AN OUTSTANDING
HEALTH OFFICER.
>> WE DO.
>> I HAVE HAD THE PRIVILEGE OF
WORKING WITH HER. YOU
HAVE A
VERY GOOD PROTOCOL IN TRYING TO
KEEP ALASKA SAFE WITH AN
ISOLATION OF A PERIOD OF TIME
WHEN YOU ARE COMING IN.
WE TRY TO MEET THE CHALLENGING
TESTING REQUIREMENTS BECAUSE
CANNOT REALLY, YOU KNOW, SEND
LABS OUT A THOUSAND MILES AWAY.
WE PUT A REAL CUSTOM ECONOMIZE
MIX OF THE POINT OF CARE AND
THEN THE MACHINES I THINK THAT
WE KID NINE OR TEN NEW TO
ALASKA
AND THEN 50,000 TESTS AND THAT'S
FOUR TIMES THAN YOU HAVE DONE
TO
DATE FLOORED TO PROVIDE THE
SUPPORT. I THINK THERE'S A
STRATEGY THAT YOU DO HAVE. THE
MITIGATION GIVEN THE
CIRCUMSTANCES AND THE FACE MASKS
AND THE HAND WASHING AND
HYGIENE, WE UNDERSTAND FULLY THE
CHAL ECKS IN THE FISHING
ENVIRONMENT AND THE REMOTES, BUT
ALL OF THESE HAVE TO COME
TOGETHER AND THE TESTING AND
TRACING AND THE MITIGATION AND
THEN THE FACTORS TO TRY TO KEEP
YOUR COMMUNITIES SAFE. WE
REALLY UNDERSTAND CULTURALLY
THAT MANY OF THE COMMUNITIES
WERE ALMOSTAL LATED IN THE FLU
PANDEMIC. THAT MEMORY IS STILL
VERY SHARP AND HURTFUL TO MANY
OF THE CITIZEN. WE WANT TO DO
OUR BEST TO ASSURE THEM THAT
WE'RE GIVING THEM THE
PROTECTION
THAT THEY CAN.
>> LET ME TURN TO DR. REDFIELD.
THIS TURNS TO CONTACT TRACING.
THIS IS A KEY PART IN HOW WE
MOVE FORWARD IN TO GETTING
PEOPLE BACK TO WORK AND SCHOOL.
RIGHT NOW WE HAVE ABOUT 100
PEOPLE THAT ARE INLAY VOVRLED IN
CONTACT TRACING IN ALASKA.
THAT'S CLEARLY NOT SUFFICIENT.
THERE'S BEEN TALK ABOUT A
NATIONAL STRATEGY, BUT I THINK
THAT WE RECOGNIZE THAT WE HAVE
TEAMS IN PLACE WHETHER IT'S
AMERICA OR PEACE
CORP. OR THE
PUBLIC HEALTH CORP, WHAT DO WE
HAVE TO DO ONCE YOU HAVE TESTED
POSITIVE THAT YOU KNOW WHAT TO
DO AFTER THAT. WHO ELSE NEEDS
TO BE BROUGHT IN TO THIS? I AM
NOT CONVINCE THAT HAD WE'RE
FOCUSSING ENOUGH ON THAT ASPECT
OF HOW WE MOVE TO REOPENING IF
WE HAVE NOT DONE THE CONTRACT
TRACING.
>> THANK YOU, VERY MUCH,
SENATOR. I WANT TO SEE WHAT YOU
SAID. IT'S CRITICAL AND THEN
THAT'S THE DIFFERENCE OF SUCK
SAIDING IN THE CONTAINING THIS
OUTBREAK FROM AND THE WIDE
SCALE
COMMUNITY TRANS MISSION OR NOT.
WE'RE POSITIONED TO REDEPLOY
THE
NUMB I OF FIVE INDIVIDUALS FOR
THE CDC. WE HAVE ANOTHER 650
THAT WE'RE TRYING TO PUT IN.
MEDICAL CENTER IMPORTANTLY
WE'RE
TRYING TO WORK WITH THE HEALTH
DEPARTMENT AND THE RESOURCES
THAT WE HAVE BEEN ABLE
TO GIVE
BECAUSE OF THE CONGRESS ALSO,
WITH THE OTHER AGENCIES AND
THEN
THE CENSUS BUREAU AND THEN WORK
TOGETHER AND HAVE THE STATE
DEVELOP THE CAPACITY. SOME
STATES HAVE DONE THE STATE
WORK.
SOME HAVE REACTIVATED THE
NATIONAL GUARD WHILE THEY BEGIN
TO DO THIS. I AGREE WITH YOU
WHEN I SAY THAT IT'S A
SIGNIFICANT EFFORT TO BUILD THE
CONTEXT TRACING THAT WE NEED IN
THE NATION. IT'S STATE BY
STATE, AND IT NEEDS TO BE
OWINGMENTED PROBABLY IN YOUR
STATE FROM WHAT YOU JUST SAID
IT'S FIVE TO TENFOLD. WE'RE
THERE TO WORK WITH THE STATES TO
HELP THEM ACCOMPLISH THAT. THAT
NEEDS TO BE IN PLACE BEFORE
SEPTEMBER.
>> WE NEED TO MOVE ON.
>> THANK YOU, SENATOR. I DON'T
WANT TO CUT ANY SENATOR OFF,
BUT
WE HAVE EIGHT MORE SENATOR THAT
IS HAVE FIVE MORE ROUNDS AND
IT'S 12:30. I WOULD LIKE TO
REQUEST THAT THE SENATORS AND
WITNESSES HAVE THE SAME
QUESTIONS AND TRY
TO STAY WITHIN
FIVE MINUTES.
HEARING AND PLEASE PASS THE
THANKS ALONG TO THE HARDWORKING
WOMAN AND MEN IN THE AGENCIES
THAT I KNOW HAVE BEEN WORKING
AROUND THE CLOCK TO TRY TO
IMPROVE THE RESPONSE AND KEEP
AMERICANS SAFE. I HOPE YOU AND
THE WITNESSES ARE HEALTHY AND
SAFE TODAY AS IS
EVERYBODY ELSE
ON THE TEAM. I RANTED TO START
BY NEEDING THIS FROM THE CDC
AND
THE PUBLIC HEALTH EXPERTS ON HOW
WE'RE GOING TO USE FACTS AND
EVIDENCE AS GUIDANCE SO THAT
OUR
SCHOOLS AND THE DAYCARES AND
BUSINESSES HAVE THE INFORMATION
THAT THEY NEED TO CREATE SAFE
AND SUSTAINABLE PLANS TO
REOPEN.
OF COURSE, THAT MEANS THAT OUR
TESTING CAPACITY NOT ONLY HAS
TO
BE ENOUGH BUT IT HAS TO MEET THE
NEEDS. THE KEY DISTINCTION
BETWEEN SOUTH KOREA AND THE
UNITED STATES IS NOT HOW MANY
TESTS PER CAPITA OVER THE
AMOUNT
OF TIME THAT WE HAVE DONE, BUT
ON THE ON SECURITY OF THE
PANDEMIC, SOUTH KOREA WAS
ABLE
TO DO MORE TEST S
TESTS.  WE CONTINUE TO DO THE
NEED AND BUILD THE
CAPACITY TOWARDS THE NEED AND
NOT THE OTHER WAY AROUND. I
WANTED TO START WITH A QUESTION
TO YOU DR. FAUCI. FIRST OF ALL,
THANK YOU FOR THE WORK AND
EXPERTISE. I WANTED TO TALK
ABOUT THE NURSING HOME. NEW
HAMPSHIRE AND THE NUMBER AND
THE
COVID-19 THAT WE HAVE BEEN
SEEING IS IN NURSING HOMES. WE
ALL KNOW THAT PEOPLE HAVE LOST
THE FRIENDS AND FAMILY MEMBERS
IN THE NURSING HOME AND THEN IT
WAS COMPOUNDED BY THE FACT THAT
PEOPLE COULD NOT BE THEY SAID
THAT ALL 1 MILLION NURSING HOME
RESIDENCE SHOULD BE TESTED
WITHIN THE NEXT TWO WEEKS AS
WELL AS ALL NURSING HOME STAFF.
AS A SHORT TERM GOAL, THAT
MANGES SENSE TO ME. AFTER THAT,
WHAT WILL BE THE ONGOING
FEDERAL
RECOMMENDATIONS LOOKING LIKE.
HOW FREQUENTLY DO WE HAVE TO
TEST THEM ON A CONTINUOUS BASIS
AND WHAT OTHER MEASURES ARE
NECESSARY TO KEEP THE LOVED ONES
IN THE FACILITIES SAFE?
>> THANK YOU FOR THE QUESTION.
THE GENERAL PLAN THAT YOU
MENTIONED THAT WAS RECOMMENDED
BY DR. BURKES WAS A SOUND PLAN
IN THE IMMEDIATE. THE QUESTION
IS IN THE LONG RANG, WE WILL
HAVE TO HAVE INFECTION CONTROL
CAPABILITIES IN NURSING HOMES
THAT ARE REALLY PRISTINE AND
REALLY UNSALABLE. WE HAVE TO DO
THE SIR SHRINES AND HAVE THE
CAME BLTS OF WHEN WE IDENTIFY
SOMEONE AND YOU GET OUT OF THAT
PARTICULAR ENVIRONMENT SO THAT
IT DOES NOT SPREAD THE
INFECTION
THROUGHOUT. OVERALL, IT'S A
GOOD START. WHEN YOU GO TO
WHERE YOU NEED TO GO AND THEN
THE SURVEILLANCE CAPABILITY.
HOUSE IS REQUIRING ALL STAFF TO
WEAR A MASK, AND ANYONE IN
REGULAR CON TAX WITH THE
PRESIDENT HATS TO TEST DAILY.
DO YOU THINK THAT NURSING HOMES
SHOULD IMPLEMENT THE SAME
MEASURES TO MAKE SURE THAT THE
SENIORS CAN GET THE SAME LEMME
OF PROTECTION?
>> I THINK THERE'S A CERTAIN
SYSTEM IN PLACE AND THE OPTIMAL
PROTECTION OF THE PEOPLE IN THE
NURSING HOMES, AND THAT WOULD
BE
UNNECESSARILY TESTING EVERY
PERSON UNDER, BUT THAT'S ONE
APPROACH THAT MAY NOT BE
BRACKET
WHEN YOU THINK OF THE NURSING
HOME IN THE COUNTRY. THERE'S A
STRICT REGULATION AND
GUIDELINES
ON WHO IS ALLOWED TO GO FER TO
THE NURSING HOME AND THEN THE
STAFF, I BELIEVE, NEEDS TO BE
MONITORED VERY CAREFULLY WITH
THE TESTING TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE
DO NOT HAVE THE INTRODUCTION IN
TO THE NURSING HOME OF THE
INFECTED INDIVIDUALS. I'M NOT
SURE THAT YOU CAN DO THE
TESTING
EVERYDAY. JOTTED THAT IT WOULD
BE FEASIBLE. SOMETHING THAT IS
MUCH MORE AGGRESSIVE THAN THE
PAST AND I BELIEVE IT SHOULD BE
DONE.
>> THANK YOU. I HAVE ONE LAST
QUESTION FOR DR. FAUCI AND DR.
REDFIELD. I WOULD ALSO SAY THAT
IF WE'RE ABLE TO GET THE MASKS
TO EVERYBODY IN THE WHITE
HOUSE,
I HOPE THAT WE CAN GET THEM TO
EVERY NURSING HOME EMPLOYEE
THAT
NEEDS THEM.
COMP
BOTH ARE FOR
THE COVID-19 AND THEN THE
PERSONAL EQUIPMENT EARLY ON IN
THE CRISIS MADE THINGS WORSE
HERE. THOSE THINGS CANNOT BE
WHEN
IT COMES TO VACCINE
DISTRIBUTION.
AND WHAT STEPS DO
WE TAKE FOR THE CAPACITY AND
THEN THE VACCINE AND WITHOUT
PUTTING IN THE RISK AND THEN
THE
IMPORTANT PRODUCTS LIKE THE
FLUS
OR MEASLES VACCINE AND MAKING
SURE
THAT ALL ROUTINES ARE ACT
ASABLE
AND WHEN I WAS TALK
ABILITY THE VACCINES FOR
COVID-19 AND WHAT WE SAID AS WE
DO THE TESTING ON THE VACCINES
WE'RE GOING TO MAKE THE
PRODUCTION AT RISK, AND WE WILL
START TO PUT HUNDREDS OF
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS OF FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT MONEY IN TO THE
DEVELOPMENT AND PRODUCTION OF
THAT VACCINE DOSES BEFORE IT
EVEN WORKS. YET WHEN WE DO, AND
I HOPE THAT WE WILL AND I HAVE
QUESTIONS THAT WE WILL GET AN
AFFECTIVE VACCINE AND THAT WE
WILL HAVE THE DOSES AVAILABLE
TO
EVERYONE THAT NEEDS IT IN THE
UNITED STATES AND EVEN
CONTRIBUTE TO WHAT IS THE NEEDS
GLOBALLY BECAUSE WE'RE
PARTNERING WITH THE NUMBER OF
OTHER COUNTRIES. THE OTHER PART
OF THE QUESTION IS MAKING SURE
THAT WHEN WE GET IN TO A
SITUATION LIKE THE CO-CALLED
SHUT DOWN THAT WE'RE IN RIGHT
NOW, THAT WE MAKE SURE THAT
CHILDREN GET THE VACCINATIONS
THAT THEY NEED. THAT WOULD BE
AN UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCE OF
SHUTTING DOWN LIKE WE ARE RIGHT
NOW. IT'S A VERY GOOD POINT.
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE DO
NOT FALL BEHIND ON THAT ALSO.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH. I WILL
TAKE MY ANSWER FROM DR.
REDFIELD
OFF LINE.
>> THANK YOU, SENATOR. SENATOR
SCOTT.
>> THANK YOU TO THE PANEL AND
THANK YOU ALL FOR BEING HERE.
WITHOUT ANY QUESTION WE FIND
OURSELF IN
A SITUATION THAT
WE'RE NOT.
AND I AM THINKING OF
THAT AND THAT'S THE FACT THAT
IN
SOUTH CAROLINA I THINK THAT
OVERALL THE CASES ARE
MOVING IN
THE RIGHT DIRECTION. WE HAVE
LESS THAN 8 THOR CASES AND THE
HOSPITAL CAPACITY IS BETTER NOW
THAN IT
WAS WHEN THE PANDEMIC
STARTED. OUR ABILITY IS I THINK
WHERE IT NEEDS TO BE.
WITH THAT IN MIND, I KNEW IN
FROM SOUTH CAROLINA TO
WASHINGTON. WE HAVE THE PLANS
TO TEST 220,000 MORE RESIDENCE
BY THE END OF THIS MONTH.
FOCUSSING ON THE AT RISK
POPULATIONS. BY THE END OF THIS
MONTH, WE WILL HAVE TESTED
100% -- 100% OF THE NURSING
HOME
RESIDENCE AND THE STAFF THAT
TAKES CARE OF THEM. AFTER
INCREASING THE CON ABOUT
TRACING
WORKFORCE 20 FOLD IN THE MATTER
OF WEEKS, THE STATE DEPARTMENT
ANNOUNCED YESTERDAY THAT
THEY'RE
GOING INCREASE IT BY AN
ADDITIONAL 1,400 CONTACT
TRACERS. WE BUILT AND CONTINUE
TO BUILD THE RESOURCES TO HELP
ISOLATE THE CASES AND MAP THE
EXPOSURE AND PREVENT THE SPIKES
MOVING FORWARD. MOST
IMPORTANTLY, THE HEALTH CARE
SYSTEM THANKS IN PART TO THE
FLEXIBILITIES FROM THIS
ADMINISTRATION HAS THE BEDS AND
THE QUESTION UPMENT TO ADDRESS
THE MOST SERIOUS CASES WHEN
THEY
ARRIVE. NOW, WITH THESE TOOLS
IN HAND, WE HAVE BEGUN TO
REOPEN. TO BE CLEAR, WE
CONTINUE TO SCALE UP THE TESTING
AND TO TAKE THE MEASURE TO
PROTECT THE MOST VULNERABLE.
FOR THOSE WITH THE CHRONIC
CONDITIONS LIKE DIABETES AND
HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE, THIS VIE
RISS REMAINS A THREAT. IT'S A
DANGEROUS THREAT. A RESENT
REPORT SUGGESTS THAT IN NEW YORK
ROUGHLY 90% OF THE FATALITIES
HAD UNDERLINING ISSUES AND THEN
TWO-THIRDS OF THE FATALITIES
ARE
30 YEARS OR OLDER. 95% OVER THE
AGE OF 50. IN SOUTH CAROLINA
THE MEDIAN AGE OF THE PATIENTS
THAT HAVE DIED FROM THE PATIENT
76 AND A HALF. NEARLY
TWO-THIRDS OF FATALITIES HAVE
BEEN PATIENTS OLDER THAN 71 AND
FLESHLY 90% WERE OVER THE AGE
OF
60 AND ROUGHLY 98% IN SOUTH
CAROLINA ARE OVER THE AGE OF
50.
CONTRAST THAT WITH THOSE AGE 20
AND YOUNGER WHERE WE HAVE SEEN
NO DEATHS. FEWER THAN ONE
PERCENT OF DEATHS IN MY STATE
HAVE BEEN UNDER THE AGE OF 40.
EVERY
SINGLE DEATH IS A TRAGEDY.
WE MOURN WITH OUR FAMILY
MEMBERS
THAT
HAVE LOST THEIR LOVED ONES.
WE'RE TRYING TO PROTECT THOSE
WITH UNDERLINING CONDITIONS.
WHEN WE SET OUT TO FLATTEN THE
CURVE AND TAKING THE
UNPRECEDENTED MEASURES LIKE
STAYING AT HOME ORDERS AND
SMALL
BUSINESS CLOSURES, WE DID NOT
SET OUT WITH A GOAL OF
PREVENTING THE FATALITIES. THAT
WOULD BE UNREALISTIC. IT IS
IMPOSSIBLE. WE DID NOT SET OUT
TO KEEP THE QUARANTINES IN
PLACE
UNTIL WE FOUND A SAFE AND AIF HE
CANNIVE VACCINE THAT WOULD TAKE
TOO LONG. THERE WAS A HELPFUL
GRAPHIC SHOWING TWO CURVES. ONE
THAT SPIKED HIGH AND THEN THE
DAILY CASES WITHOUT THE
PROTECTIVE MEASURES AND THEN THE
FLATTER CURVE SHOWED THOSE
CASES
WITH THOSE MEASURES IN PLACE.
THE WHOLE POINT WHICH THE
GRAPHIC ILLUSTRATED WAS TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE DID NOT EXCEED THE
HOSPITAL CAPACITY. WHILE I
RESPECT THE NEED FOR CAUTION,
WE'RE TWO OFTEN PRESENTED WITH
THE FALSE ECONOMY OF SAVING THE
ECONOMY OR SAVING LIVINGS. WE
SEEN THE GOAL POSTS AROUND THE
FLATTENING THE CURVE MOVE. I
THINK THAT'S UNFORTUNATE. AT
THE SAME TIME THAT WE'RE DOING
THAT, THE BUSINESSES HAVE
COLLAPSED AND MENTAL AND
PHYSICAL HEALTH HAVE DECLINED.
THE DEATH OF DESPAIR ESCALATE
AND THEN THERE'S A NOSE DIVE AS
WE WAIT IN THE LIVING ROOM
PRAYING FOR GOOD NEWS AROUND THE
THERAPIES AND AROUND VACCINES.
WE SET OUT TO FLATTEN THE
CURVE,
AND I THINK THAT WE HAVE DONE A
GOOD JOB OF THAT. WE NEED TO DO
BETTER, AND WE WILL DO BETTER.
MY QUESTION IS AS WE START THE
PROCESS OF MOVING TOWARDS
REOPENING SOUTH CAROLINA, WHAT
ELSE DO YOU SUGGEST THAT WE CAN
DO TO
PROTECT THE MOST
VULNERABLE POPULATIONS?
>> THANK YOU, SENATOR SCOTT.
YOU GAVE A REALLY ELEGANT
DESCRIPTION OF WHAT I THINK IS
ONE OF THE MODEL WAYS THE WAY
THAT YOU APPROACH THIS. I MEAN
YOU HAVE PUT THINGS IN PLACE
THAT I THINK WOULD OPTIMIZE THE
CAPABILITY OF REOPENING, AND AS
I WAS THINKING AS YOU WERE
SPEAKING, I ALMOST WON'T TO
CLONE THAT AND MAKE SURE THAT
OTHER PEOPLE HEAR ABOUT THAT
AND
SEE WHAT YOU HAVE BEEN DOING.
THE ISSUE OF YOUR DIRECT
QUESTION TO ME
ON THE VULNERABLE
POPULATIONS IS THAT AND THEN
YOU'RE PUTTING THE PLACE IN A
GOOD SYSTEM. THE VON SXRABL THE
ELDERLY AND THOSE WITH THE
UNDERLINING CONDITIONS SHOULD
BE
THOSE AT THE VERY LAST OF
LIFTING OF THE MITIGATIONS
SHOULD BE THOSE WHO ARE LEFT IN
A SITUATION WHERE THEY MIGHT BE
IN DANGER OF GETTING INFECTED.
IN OTHER WORDS, PROTECT THEM UP
UNTIL THE VERY END OF THE
RELAXATION OF THE MITIGATION.
AS YOU SAID, VERY CORRECTLY,
THOSE ARE THE INDIVIDUALS THAT
ARE THE MOST VULNERABLE FOR THE
MORBITTY AND MORTALITY. THOSE
ARE THE INDIVIDUAL S AND
PARTICULARLY I MAY SAY THAT
THOSE IN THE MORBITTY GROUP
HAVE
A GREATER LIKELIHOOD OF NOT
GETTING IN FACTOIDED BY HAVING
THE UNDERLINING CONDITIONS THAT
WOULD MAKE THE RISK FOR A
HIGH
DEGREE OF MORBIDITY HIGHER.
GETTING IN FACTOIDED BY HAVING
THE UNDERLINING CONDITIONS THAT
WOULD MAKE THE RISK FOR A HIGH
DEGREE OF MORBIDITY HIGHER.
>> THANK YOU, DR. FAUCI. I WANT
TO SAY THANK YOU FOR THE
CONVERSATIONS THAT WE HAVE HAD
ABOUT THE VULNERABLE
POPULATIONS
YOU CLING MINORITIES AND SENIOR
CITIZEN. I WILL SAY WHEN YOU
LOOK AT THE NURSING HOMES IT'S
TYPICALLY AFTERNOON CAN
AMERICAN
AND HISPANICS ARE THE CERTIFIED
NURSING ASSISTANCES THAT ARE
PROVIDING THE CARE. YOUR FOCUS
ON THOSE TWO VERY VULNERABLE
GROUPS IS MUCH APPRECIATED AND
THANK YOU FOR THE EXPERTISE.
SENATOR SMITH GE THANK VOW SO
MUCH CHAIR ALEXANDER AND THANKS
TO ALL OF YOU FOR BEING HERE
TODAY AND THE SERVICE. DR.
FAUCI, YOU'RE IN THE POSITION OF
BEING THE PERSON THAT SO MANY
AMERICANS IN MINNESOTA TRUST TO
GIVE US THE STRAIGHT SCOPE AND
TELL US WHAT IS REALLY
HAPPENING. YOU'RE ABOUT THE
FACTS AND NOT THE POLITICS.
THAT'S A REALLY GOOD THING. I
HAVE TO START BY ASKING A
QUESTION THAT I THINK A LOT OF
AMERICANS WANT TO KNOW WHICH IS
HOW ARE YOU DOING? HOW ARE YOU
HOLDING UP? IT'S BEEN AN
UNBELIEVABLE EFFORT.
>> I AM DOING FINE. THANK YOU
SENATOR FOR ASKING. THIS IS AN
IMPORTANT PROBLEM AND
TRANSCENDS
ALL OF US AND WORKING AS A TEAM.
I ENJOY WORKING WITH THE
SENATORS AND GOVERNORS BECAUSE
IT'S AT THE LOCAL LEVEL THAT
WE'RE GOING MAKE THIS THING
WORK. I AM FINE, AND I
APPRECIATE MY CONCERN.
>> A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE THINKING
ABILITY YOU AND GRATEFUL FOR
THE
SERVICE AS
WE ARE FOR ALL OF
YOU. I THINK FIRST OF WHAT IS
HAPPENING IN THE HOME STATE OF
MINNESOTA AND AGRICULTURE IS AN
IMPORTANT PART OF THE STATE
WORK
AND HISTORY AND THE CORE
PROCESSES RIGHT NOW ARE LOOKING
AT THE REALITY OF THOUSANDS OF
HOGS A DAY BECAUSE THERE'S NO
PLACE TO PROCESS THEM BECAUSE
OF
WHAT IS HAPPENING IN THE
PROCESSING PLANTS. THE PEOPLE
THAT DO THE HARD WORK IN THE
PROFESSIONING PLANTS ARE
GETTING
SICK. HERE IS ONE STORY, AND
THIS IS A WORKER AND THEY WROTE
ABOUT THIS AND THIS IS NAMED
AND
SHE IS A MOM THAT WORKS WITH THE
CONTRACTOR THAT DOES THE
CLEANING AND WORKS FOR $14 AN
HOUR AND 7 HOURS DAY AND FIVE
DAYS A WEEK, AND HER JOB IS TO
SANITIZE THE MACHINES THAT
PROCESS THE MEAT.
SHE STARTED TO FEEL SICK ON
APRIL 11th, BUT SHE KEPT ONGOING
WORK. ON APRIL 21st WHEN ONE OF
THE CO-WORKERS FARNTED, SHE
TOLD
THE SUPERVISOR THAT SHE WAS
FEELING SICK. SHE WAS TOLD IF
SHE WAS NOT FEELING SIGNS OF
ILLNESS TO COME BACK. SHE WENT
TO THE DOCTOR AND
PAID $115 TO
GET A TEST
AND A BIG PART OF
WHAT WE HAVE BEEN TALKING ABOUT
TODAY THIS SAID FACILITIES
SHOULD CONSIDER THE APPROPRIATE
ROLL OF
TESTING IN THE WORKPLACE
CONTACT TRACING AS WE THINK OF
HOW WE MOVE FORWARD, WE ALL
WANT
TO OPEN UP THE ECONOMY AND WHAT
GUIDANCE WOULD YOU GIVE US IN
THE SITUATION
LIKE THIS HERE IN
MINNESOTA?
>> WELL, I CAN QUAV YOU MY
COMMON SENSE GUIDEN. IT'S NOT
MY EXPERTISE BUT THERE'S MORE
OTHERS THAT SEEM IF YOU WANT TO
KEEP THINGS LIKE PACKING
PLANTS
OPEN, YOU HAVE TO PROVIDE THE
PROTECTION FOR THE WORKERS
INVOLVED AND ALLOWED THEM TO GO
TO WORK SAFELY AND IF AND WHEN
THEY GET INFECTED TO
IMMEDIATELY
BE ABLE TO GET THEM OUT AND
GIVE
THEM THE PROPER CARE.
YOU HAVE
TO MAKE SURE THAT THEY'RE WELL
TAKEN CARE OF. THAT'S NOT A
PROLA MACIOL BUT SPEAKING AS A
PHYSICIAN AND HUMAN BEING.
>> THANK YOU. I THINK THAT YOU
SPEAK AS A HUMAN BEING BUT ALSO
AS THE CHIEF OF THE COUNTRY AND
THE
PERSON THAT WE ALL TRUST.
THERE'S THE POINT THAT I WANT
TO
DRIVE HOME. THIS IS THE
GUIDANCE THAT WE'RE GETTING AND
FOLLOWING. THIS IS WHAT NEEDS
TO BE AND THAT WE HAVE TO HAVE
IN THE COUNTRY IF YOU'RE GOING
TO REOPEN THE ECONOMY AS WE ALL
WANT TO DO. IF WE MOVE TOWARDS
REOPENING THE PROJECT AND WE
HAVE THE CIRCUMSTANCES LIKE
WE'RE HAVING AT THE PROCESSING
PLANTING AND OTHER PLACES
AROUND
THE STATE, WE'RE GOING TO BE
RIGHT BACK WHERE WE STARTED
STARTED BUT
IN A WORST PLACE.
>> THANK YOU, SENATOR. IT DOES
RELATE TO THE QUESTIONS THAT
ONE
OF YOUR COLLEAGUE SENATORS ASK
ME BEFORE. ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT I KEEP ON SAYING IS THAT
HEN YOU'RE IN THE PROCESS OF
OPENING UP AND PULLING BACK ON
MITIGATION, YOU REALLY MUST
HAVE
IN PLACE ST. CAPABILITY OF
RESPONDING WHEN THERE'S AN
UPTICK OF THE CASES. THAT WILL
ABSOLUTELY OCCUR. IT'S HOW WE
DEAL WITH IT AND HOW SUCCESSFUL
WE ARE IN PUTTING THE CLAMPS ON
IT THAT'S GOING TO PREVENT US
FROM GETTING THE KIND OF
REBOUND
REBOUND.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH,
SENATOR
SMITH. SENATOR RON.
THE SENATOR SPOKE. I UNDERSTAND
THAT THEY'RE GOING TO FRAME THE
DATA THAT'S MOST POSITIVE
POLITICALLY. I DO NOT EXPECT
THAT FROM THE ADMIRAL.
YESTERDAY YOU SAID THAT WE DID
MORE TEST THAN SOUTH KOREA. YOU
IGNORED THE FACT THAT THEY DID
THIS AT THE BEGINNING AND WE
TRADED WATER IN FEBRUARY
AND
MARCH. AS A RESULT AND THEN
THERE WERE 140,000 TESTS. AS A
RESULT OF THAT, THERE'S 246
DEATHS AND WE HAVE ALMOST 80,000
DEATHS. I FIND THAT OUR TESTING
RECORD IS NOTHING TO CELEBRATE
WHATSOEVER. THE FACT IS THAT
THEY'RE TEST NUMBERS ARE GOING
DOWN BECAUSE THEY DO NOT HAVE
THE OUTBREAK THAT WE HAVE. OURS
ARE GOING UP AS THEY HAVE TO. I
THINK THAT'S IMPORTANT FOR US
AS
WE THINK ABOUT THE FUTURE. MY
IMPRESSION WITH REGARDS TO
VACCINES AND WHERE I'M CRITICAL
IS THAT WE HAVE DONE A DARN
GOOD
JOB OF MOVING AHEAD
AGGRESSIVELY.
THEY SAID IT'S
DOING SOMETHING AND THEN ARE
EITHERMENT TRUMP OR OBAMA
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FACT THAT
WE
HAVE A VACCINE NOW OR IN
DELAYING IT IN
SOME WAY?
>> NO, SENATOR THEY'RE NOT
RESPONSIBLE FOR HAVING THE
VACCINE. WE MOVED AS WE SAID
BECAUSE I DESCRIBED IN THE
OPENING STATEMENT AND
IN KNOWING
THE VIRUS AND I DON'T THINK
THAT
THERE'S DOING ANYTHING WRONG IN
THAT. I THINK THAT'S RIGHT.
THAT'S THE CORRECT WAY TO
DO IT.
>> THANK YOU. THAT WAS
MY
IMPRESSION. I WAS SURPRISED WE
THE COMMENT.
TAVS MY IMPRESSION. SENATOR AND
I WROTE A LETTER EXPRESSING THE
DISMAY AT THE LACK OF THE
ROADWAY TIME DATA. I MEAN THE
DEMOGRAPHIC HOSPITALIZATION
AND
THEN THE TREATMENT DATA. HOW IS
IT POSSIBLE THAT THE CDC HAS
NOT
ESTABLISHED A REAL TIME SYSTEM
AND WHAT CAN CONGRESS DO TO
RECTIFY THAT SO THAT WE NERVE
HAVE TO LOOK AT SOMETHING LIKE
THIS AGAIN?
QUESTION. I THINK THAT YOU
HAVE
HIT ONE OF THE
SDSH HOW
IMPORTANT IT IS. I THINK THAT
CONGRESS HAS MOVED FORWARD AND
PROVIDED THE FUNDING FOR DATA
MODERNIZATION. WE'RE IN THE
PROCESS OF EARN IMPLEMENTING.
THE REALITY IS THAT THERE'S A
PUBLIC HEALTH SYSTEM. EACH
PUBLIC HEALTH DEPARTMENT HAS
THEIR OWN HEALTH SYSTEMS. THIS
NATION NEEDS A MODERN HIGHLY
CAPABLE DATA ANALYTICS SYSTEM
THIS CAN DO
THE ANALYSIS. IT'S
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT'S BEEN
IDENTIFIED AS WE WENT THROUGH
THE OUTBREAK. I COULD NOT AGREE
WITH YOU MORE. IT'S TIME TO GET
THAT CORRECT.
>> THANK YOU. I ASSUME THAT
IT'S NOT BUILD IT OURSELF BUT
WORK WITH THE COMPANIES THAT
HAVE THE CAPACITY AND WORK
WITH
IT IN THE FAVOR.
AND GIVE US
FOR THE OTHER CORONAVIRUS AND
THEN HOW LIKELY IS IT. IS IT
EXTREMELY LIKELY THAT WE'RE
GOING TO GET A VACCINE WITHIN A
YEAR OR TWO. IS IT MORE LIKELY
THAN NOT OR IS IT A LONG SHOT?
>> IT'S DEFINITELY NOT A LONG
SHOT SENATOR ROMNEY. I THINK
IT'S MORE LIKELY NOT THAT WE
WILL. THIS IS A VIRUS THAT
REDUCES THE IMMUNE
RESPONSE AND
THAT PEOPLE RECOVER. MAJORITY
RECOVER. THERE'S THE MORBIDITY
AND THEN THE LESS POPULATION.
THIS TELLS ME THAT WE CAN
STIMULATE THE BODY WITH A
VACCINE THAT'S GOING TO CONDUCE
A SIMILAR RESPONSE. I THINK
THERE'S NO GUARANTEE. I THINK
THAT IT'S CLEARLY MORE LIKELY
THAN NOT THAT SOMEWHERE IN THE
TIME FRAME, WE WILL GET A
VACCINE FOR THE VIRUS.
>> THANK YOU. I YIELD.
>> THANK YOU, SENATOR ROMNEY
.
WE HAVE FOUR MORE SENATORS AND
WANT THEM TO ANSWER THE
QUESTIONS.
>> THANKS TO THE WITNESSES FOR
ALL OF THEM BEING HERE AND THEN
FOR THE INCREDIBLE SERVICE
DURING THIS TIME. I WANT TO
FOLLOW UP QUICK WITH AN
ADDITIONAL THING THAT SENATOR
ROMNEY TALKED ABOUT WITH REGARD
TO SOUTH KOREA. THAT'S THE FACT
THAT WE'RE A NATION WITH THE
POPULATION OF SOUTH KOREA AND
THEY HAVE THREE TIMES THE
NUMBER
OF DEATHS. I THINK THAT WE HAVE
TO BE CAREFUL IN MAKING THE
COMPARISONS AROUND THE WORLD.
DR. REELED FIELD, I WANT TO
FOLLOW UP WITH WHAT THE SENATOR
AND I THINK
SENATOR KING TALKED
ABOUT THE CONTACT TRACES. I
UNCTION THAT YOU'RE TRYING TO
WORK WITH THE STATES FOR THE
PLANS OF REOPENING. THE CON
TABLTH TRACING IS IMPORTANT,
BUT
USING THAT DATA AS WELL IS FOG
TO BE OR NOT IN TERMS OF THE
QUARANTINE PLANS THAT SENATOR
MURPHY TALKED ABILITY AND CHILD
CARE FACILITIES TO ALLOW PEOPLE
TO PUT THEIR KIDS IN A FACILITY
WHILE THEY'RE STILL GOING BACK
TO WORK. ALL OF THOSE ISSUES
INCLUDING MAYBE EVEN FACILITIES
LIKE THE VACANT HOTELS AND
MOTELS THAT MAYBE USED FOR
SELF-ISOLATION. HOW IS THIS
PLAN BEING DEVELOPED WITHIN THE
CDC? ARE THOSE PLANS GOING TO
BE VISUALIZED BY THE STATE?
WILL WE AS A MEMB WERE OF
CONGRESS HAVE ACCESS TO THE
PLANS AND HOW ARE THE STATES
GOING TO PAY FOR THIS. ER OF
CONGRESS
HAVE ACCESS TO THE PLANS AND HOW
ARE THE STATES GOING TO PAY FOR
THIS. MY STATE IS TALKING ABOUT
BUILDING A STATE HOUSE AND NOT
DOING THE CONTRACT TRACING AND
TESTING. I WANT YOU TO DRILL
DOWN WHAT ACCESS AND THE PLANS
OF BEING ABLE TO SEE THEM.
AND
THE CDC IS IN THE POSITION THAT
THEY HAVE PREPROGRAMMED AND
INDIVIDUALS THAT WE HAVE ACROSS
THE COUNTRY AND THEN WE'RE
BEGINNING TO HELP EACH OF THE
STATES. WE HAVE AMENDED THAT
WITH THE ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL
THAT WE HAVE ON BOARD STATE BY
STATE THROUGH THE FOUNDATION,
AND WE HAVE ABOUT $106 BILLION
OF THE MONEY THAT CONGRESS IS
APPROPRIATE FLOOD TO THE STATES
SO THAT THEY CAN BEGIN TO TALK
ABOUT HOW THEY WANT TO HIRE FOR
THE RETURN CONTACT TRACING
CAPABILITIES, AND THEN OF COURSE
IT WAS MENTIONED THAT WE AND
THE
OTHER GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS AND
THE PEACE CORP. AND THAT EACH
GROUP IS GOING INSTRUCT THEIR
CONTACT TRACING PIECE TO WHAT
THEY THINK THAT THE NEEDS ARE.
I DO THINK THAT IT'S SIMILAR TO
WHAT WE HEARD FROM THE SENATOR
OF SOUTH CAROLINA, THESE ARE
SIGNIFICANT UNDERSTAND CREASES.
I THINK THEY'RE GOING INCREASE
AGAIN. THE POINT THAT YOU
BROUGHT UP IS CRITICALLY
IMPORTANT ALSO. WE FOUND THAT
AS WE ALSO STRUGGLE WITH THE
DIFFERENT AMERICANS AROUND THE
COUNTRY WHERE WE HAD THE PUT
MANY OF THEM IN QUARANTINE AND
AS
YOU KNOW THERE'S A MILITARY
BASIS AND WHERE DO THEY PUT
SOMEONE
IN THE ISOLATION THAT'S
HOMELESS. AND THEN IS THERE A
CERTAIN HOTEL AND THEN I TAKE
THE POINT THAT WAS MADE BY ONE
OF
THE OTHER SENATORS IS SO
IMPORTANT
AND THEN HAVE TO HAVE
AN AFFECTIVE WAY TO IDENTIFY
THE
CASES AND THEN DO THE
APPROPRIATE HEALTH MEASURE AND
THEN THINGS HAVE TO BE
COMPREHENSIVE AND THEN THERE'S
THE JURISDICTION AT A TIME. I
SEE NO REASON WHY THESE ARE NOT
TRANSPARENT COBMENTS AS THEY
GET
COMPLETED. IT REALLY IS
ATTRIBUTING TO THE SUPPORT THAT
YOU HAVE GIVEN SO FAR. AS I
SAID $1.6 BILLION GOT IN
TO THE
STATE. IT'S FUNDSMENTLE
. WE
DON'T HAVE TO SWITCH FROM
MITIGATION.
>> ALL RIGHT.
>> THANK YOU, DR. REDFIELD.
APPRECIATE IT. IT SOUNDS LIKE
WE STILL HAVE A LOT OF WORK TO
DO. THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH
, SENATOR
JONES.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU
REMEMBER IF THE FDA WAS GOING
TO
BE MORE AND IF THE FDA AND THEN
TALKING ABOUT HOW WE FIX THE
HEALTH CARE SYSTEM IN GENERAL.
NOW, THIS IS BROUGHT IT IN TO
THE CLEAR FOCUS. I HAVE GOT A
TIMELINE, AND I'M GOING SUBMIT
FOR THE RECORD THAT SHOWS FROM
JANUARY 24TH THROUGH MARCH 5TH,
AND I WANT TO EMPHASIZE WHAT
SENATOR BURR ASKED EARLIER HAS
THE ADMINISTRATION EVER PUT IN
FRONT OF TRYING TO GET TO
TESTING? DR. HAHN, THIS WILL
END UP IN A QUESTION IN A
MOMENT. THERE WAS A SPAN OF
TIME FROM JANUARY 24TH THROUGH
MARCH 5TH AND I HOPE THAT THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC LOOKS AT. IT
GETS BACK TO WHAT IS WRONG WITH
THE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM IN
GENERAL. EARLY TESTING FROM
WHAT I AM SEEING WAS CREATED BY
THE FACT THAT THE CDC SAID IT
WAS GOING TO DO THEY'RE OWN
TEST
AND THE SOUTH KOREAN TEST THAT
GETS CITED SO OFTEN WAS NOT
GOING TO BE LOOKED AT. WE HAD
TO DO OUR OWN. I KNOW THE FDA
WORK WITH THE CDC BUT THE LONG
AND SHORT OF ALL OF THIS IS
THAT
FOR NEARLY A MONTH THIS WAS IN
THAT SWIRL. THE FDA PREVENTED
THE PRIVATE AND ACADEMIC
DEVELOPMENT OF THE TESTS FOR
WEEKS. THE CDC DENIED THE
ACCESS TO FUNCTIONING TESTS AS I
CITED IN SOUTH KOREA. THIS
CREATED THROUGH ALL OF THE RED
TAPE TO WHERE WE HAD TO COME UP
WITH A ONE SIZE FITS ALL
APPROACH DUE TO THE UNCERTAINTY
OF THE VIRUS, AND WE'RE STUCK
WITH THAT NOW. I DON'T WANT TO
DWELL ON THAT NECESSARILY
BECAUSE I THINK THOSE WERE
MISTAKES THAT I MADE. I AM
TIRED OF HAVING IT HEARD THAT
IT'S THE ADMINISTRATIONS FAULT.
DR. HAHN, I WOULD LIKE TO ASK
YOU A QUESTION. IN THE SPIRIT
OF THE OF NATION PROCESS, HERE
GOING FORWARD, WILL WE SHED
SOME
OF THAT? WILL WE LOOK TO GET
THERAPEUTICS AND VACCINES
THROUGH THE SYSTEM IN A QUICKER
METHOD BECAUSE I FEAR IF WE DO
NOT, AND IF WE TREAT THROUGH
THE
BUREAUCRACY THROUGH THE EARLY
PERIOD OF TESTING, WE CAN BE
LABOR THIS IN TO THE DISTANCE
FUTURE, AND AT THAT POINT
THERE'S NOT ONLY THE DISEASE
ITSELF BUT THE ECONOMY TO DEAL
WITH. I WOULD LIKE YOUR COMMENT
ON THAT ONE MONTH STRETCH, WHAT
ACCOUNTABILITY THE FDA AND CDC
HAVE AND THEN WHETHER IT LOOKS
BETTER IN TERMS OF MOVING MORE
QUICKLY IN TO THE FUTURE.
>> THANK YOU, SENATOR WITHDRAWN
FOR THE QUESTION. OUR TIMELINE
OF THAT PERIOD DEMONSTRATES
THAT
WE START TODAY WORK WITH THE
TEST DEVELOPERS BEYOND CDC ON
JANUARY 24TH AND HAD THE DOUBLE
DIGIT OF NUMBERS WORKING WITH
US. ONE OF THE ISSUES THAT WE
IDENTIFIED WAS IN FACT THE
AVAILABILITY OF THE VIRUS AND
OTHER SUPPLIES TO GET THAT
TESTING DEVELOPMENT DONE IN A
TIMELY FASHION. SENATOR, I
COMPLETELY AGREE WITH YOU THAT
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY TO TAKE
A
LOOK AND DETERMINE HOW YOU CAN
DO THINGS BETTER. I THINK
THAT'S A REALLY IMPORTANT THING
FOR ALL OF US TO DO AND
CERTAINLY THE FDA CAN PROMISE
TO
DO THAT. LOOKING FORWARD, SIR,
I CAN COMMIT TO YOU THAT WE'RE
GOING LOOK AT THE REGULAR
AUTHORITIES. WE HAVE DONE SO IN
THE OUTBREAK AND PROVIDED
SIGNIFICANT PLAUSIBILITY AND
TRIED TO PROVIDE THE RIGHT
BALANCE OF THE FLEXIBILITY AND
ENABLING OF THE GREAT TEST
DEVELOPERS AND THE DEVELOPER IN
THE COUNTRY WITH THE NEED TO
INSURE THE GOLD STANDARD IN
PLACE. WE HAVE LEARNED A AND WE
WILL CONTINUE TO LEARN AND
IMPLEMENT THE CHANGES THAT ARE
NECESSARY TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
CAN
DO IT IN A MORE WAY
AND
TAKING THE PLAYBOOK AND THEN
IMPLEMENTED A FORMAL CLEARLY
DEFINED TREATMENT REVIEW
PATHWAY, CAN WE DO THAT FOR
COVID-19 IN A SIMILAR PARALLEL
TRACK THAT YOU PUT IN TO PLACE
BACK THEN IN THE 890s IN FACT,
I
HAVE A BILL CALLED THE
PROMISING
PATHWAYS ACT THAT IS BASED UPON
THAT PROTOCOL THAT YOU PUT IN
TO
PLACE. CAN WE DO THAT TO MORE
QUICKLY GET THROUGH TO THE
THERAPEUTICS AND VACCINES HERE
WITH COVID-19?
>> WELL, IT'S A DIFFERENT STORY,
BUT SOME SIMILARITIES. IF YOU
ARE REFER TO GO THE PARALLEL
TRACT THAT I PUT IN TO PLACE
BACK IN THE LATE 80s, WHICH WAS
WHEN THERE WAS NO AVAILABILITY
OF DRUGS AT ALL FOR HIV AND
WHEN
WE WERE TESTING DRUGS WITHIN A
PROTOCOL THAT WE WOULD MAKE IT
AVAILABLE OUTSIDE OF THE
PROTOCOL. WHAT TURNED OUT TO BE
COMPASSIONATE USE AND SO WHAT
WE
DID WAS THAT WE DID NOT WANT TO
INTERFERE WITH THE INTEGRITY TO
DETERMINE THE CONTROL WAY WHAT
WAS SAFE AND WHAT WAS
AFFECTIVE.
THERE WAS A NEED OF SOME SORT
OF
ACCESSIBILITY TO THOSE DRUGS
OUTSIDE OF THE CLINICAL TRIAL
FOR THOSE THAT MIGHT HAVE SOME
CHANCE OF HAVING IT. IN FACT,
THAT WAS REALLY IN MANY
RESPECTS
GO THE FIRM CONCEPT OF
COMPASSIONATE YOUTH. IN FACT,
THERE'S A VERSION OF THAT, THAT
I WILL HAND OVER TO THE
COMMISSIONER THAT IS, YOU KNOW,
WHEN YOU HAVE THE EXPANDED
ACCESS AND THE EMERGENCY USE
AUTHORIZATION THAT'S NOT BEEN
FULLY PROVEN IN A CLINICAL
TRIAL.
IF YOU WANT TO COMMENTED
ON THAT.
>> YEAH, THERE'S A FLEXIBILITY
AND THE RISK AND PUBLIC
EMERGENCY. WE HAVE DONE THAT ON
THE SIDE IN THREE SEPARATE
OCCASIONS AND CONTINUED TO LOOK
AT THE REQUESTS AS THEY COME
IN.
>> THANK YOU, VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK
YOU, SENATOR BRAWN.
SENATOR ROSEN.
CHAIRMAN FOR BRINGING THIS
HEARING. I WANT TO THANK YOU
FOR THE LIFETIME OF WORK AND
STUDY AND PASSION. WE'RE A
GRATEFUL NATION FOR THE LIFE
LONG COMMITMENT IN FIGHTING THE
DISEASE. NOT JUST IN THE UNITED
STATES BUT AROUND THE WORLD. IF
I TALKED TO THOSE IN NEVADA
NECH
ABOUT SAFELY REOPENING THE
ECONOMY, ONE QUESTION THAT
FREQUENTLY COMES UP IS WHEN ARE
WE GOING HAVE A VACCINE LIKE
EVERYBODY IS TALKING ABOUT.
IT'S THE LIFE BLOOD FOR US AND
THEN THE JOBS ASSOCIATED AND
THAT CAN FULLY COME BACK IF WE
KNOW THAT IT'S SAFE TO TRAVEL
AND VISIT AND WORK AND HOTELS
AND CASINOS AND THAT TRACTIONS.
TO MAKE THIS HAPPEN, YOU HAVE
TO
HAVE CONFIDENCE IN THE VISITORS
FEELING SAFE. WE NEED THAT AND
THAT'S IMPORTANT. HOWEVER,
UNDERSTANDING THAT THIS TAKES
TIME TO DEVELOP AND INSURE BOTH
SAFETY AND ITHACA SI, I WOULD
LIKE TO HEAR WHAT RESEARCH IS
HAPPENING REGARDING THE
PREVENTIVE MEDICATION RESEARCH
THAT COULD BE HELPFUL IN THE
TIME FRAME BEFORE A VACCINE AND
ONE THAT'S WIDELY AVAILABLE. I
WANT TO ASK IF THIS IS PART OF
THE PATH AND HELPING US TO
REOPEN THE ECONOMY SAFELY AND
BRING THE VISITORS NOT ONLY
BACK
TO NEVADA BUT ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
COULD THIS BE USED TO
BLOCK COVID-19 VIRUS FROM
LAUNCHING ON TO THE HOST CELLS
MUCH LIKE THE TREATMENTS FOR
RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS AND OTHER
DISEASES AND THING SECONDLY
WOULD THE PREVENTIVE MEDICATIONS
OPTIONS LIKE THIS HELP TO
COMPLIMENT THE EFFECTIVENESS OF
A VACCINE ONCE IT'S AVAILABLE?
>> THANK YOU FOR THE QUESTION
SENATOR ROSEN. THAT'S ACT ALE
EXTENT QUESTION. IN ALL OF THE
THINGS THAT WE HAVE DEVELOPED,
THEY CAN BE DIRECT ANTEVIRALS,
BUT THAT'S JUST ONE OF THE
NUMBER OF POSSIBLES SINCE
THERE'S SEVERAL VIRAL TARGETS
AND THE REPLICATION CYCLE.
USING THE PLASMA AS WELL AS THE
ANTIBODIES IN A PREVENTIVE MORE
BILLTY ARE ALL FEASIBLE AND
WILL
BE PURSUED IN PARALLEL WITH THE
DEVELOPMENT OF THE VACCINE. THE
MODEL OF USING DRUGS AND OTHER
INTERVENTIONS THAT ARE AFFECTED
FOR THE TREATMENT, IS REALLY A
GREAT SUCCESS STORY IN THE STOW
WITH HIV/AIDS BECAUSE MANY OF
THE INTERVENTIONS THAT WERE
DEVELOPED IF WERE THE FULL
TREATMENT OF
THE INFECTED PERSON
ARE AFFECT IV
AFFECTIVE AFFECTIVE WITH THE
HIV. I BELIEVE THAT WILL BE
APART OF OUR EFFORT AT THE SAME
TIME AS WE'RE PUTTING A FULL
COURT PROCESS ON TRYING TO GET
A
VACCINE. IT'S AN EXCELLENT
QUESTION. IT'S VERY RELEVANT.
>> I KNOW THAT I
HAVE A THIRD
TIME LEFT AND I AM GOING TALK
ABOUT THE IF HE COULD MOST
IMPORTANT AND THEN THE FIRST
RESPONDERS AND GENERALLY, WHAT
DOES THE MARK GENERATION OF THE
PPE NEED TO LOOK LARK FOR ALL
OF
US AS WE GO ABOUT OUR LIVES?
NOT JUST WORKERS. YOU MAY NEED
SOMETHING STRONGER AND MORE
SPECIFIC. FOR THOSE OF US THAT
WANT TO GO OUT TO EAT AND GET
ON
AN AIRPLANE, SHOULD THAT BE
MADE
OF A CERTAIN MATERIAL OR GLOVES
OR WHAT IS AFFECTIVE? CAN YOU
TALK ABOUT
PPE FOR THE GENERAL
PUBLIC?
>> THE BEST IS TO MAINTAIN THE
PHYSICAL AND SOCIAL DISTANCING.
AS WE HAVE SAID, AND I THINK
THAT ALL US WOULD AGREE THAT
THERE'S CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES
THAT'S BEYOND THE CONTROL WHEN
YOU NEED TO DO NECESSARY THINGS
LIKE GO TO THE DRUGSTORE AND
GET
MEDICATION OR THE GROCERY STORE
AND GET THE FOOD. YOU NEED SOME
SUPPLEMENTATION. THAT'S THE
REASON WHY SOME TIME AGO THE
RECOMMENDATION WAS MADE AND I
BELIEVE IT WAS DOCTOR REDFIELD
AT THE CDC THAT FIRST SAID THAT
AND GETTING A COVERING. WE
DON'T WANT TO CALL IT A MASK
BECAUSE BACK THEN WE WERE
CONCERNED THAT WE WOULD BE
TAKING THE MASKS AWAY FROM THE
HEALTH CARE PROVIDER S.
BUT A MASK AND COVERING. FOR
THE TIME BEING IT SHOULD BE A
VERY REGULAR PART OF HOW WE
PREVENT THE SPREAD OF
INFECTION.
IN FACT, THE MORE AND MORE THAT
YOU GO OUTSIDE RIGHT HERE AND
WHERE I'M SITTING IN WASHINGTON
D.C., YOU CAN SEE MANY PEOPLE
OUT THERE WITH THE MASK ON, AND
THAT GIVES ME A DEGREE OF
COMFORT THAT PEOPLE ARE TAKING
THIS VERY
SERIOUSLY.
>> THANK YOU.
AND YOUR SERVICE. ADMIRAL GIOR,
BEFORE I START THE QUESTIONS I
WANT TO RECOGNIZE THE NEW ROLE
OF THE U.S. REPRESENTATIVE TO
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION.
MITIGATING THIS WILL TAKE
GLOBAL
COOPERATION. IN ORDER TO DO
THAT, WE NEED ACCOUNTABILITY AND
TRANSPARENCY AT THE WHO. THIS
ORGANIZATION WAS ESTABLISHED
FOR
THE TIMELY FLOW OF ACCURATE AND
UNBIASSED INFORMATION ON THE
CLOTHE HEALTH EMERGENCIES JUST
AS THIS AND THE REFORMS MUST BE
MADE IN ORDER TO RESTORE THE
TRUST THAT WE NEED HERE. I HOPE
THAT YOU WILL WORK WITH THE
ALLIES TO PUSH FOR THEIR
REFORMS. THIS QUESTION -- I
HAVE TWO QUESTIONS. THE FIRST
ONE IS FOR DR. REDFIELD. WE'RE
WONDERING HOW WE GOT HER TODAY
AND THEN A THIRD OF THE
WORKFORCE IS OUT OF WORK. I 578
CONCERNED ON THE COVER UP AND
THEN THE INFORMATION ON CHINA
AND THEN THE EFFORTS TO
SUPPRESS
THE LIFE SAVING EFFORTS AT THE
OUTSET OF THE OUTBREAK. AS WE
CONTINUE TO REOPEN THE COMBI
SAFETY, WE HAVE TO TAKE STEPS
TO
INSURE THAT ANOTHER OUTBREAK
CANNOT TAKE HOLD OF THE WORLD
IN
THIS WAY. I UNDERSTAND THAT
THEY HAVE WORKED ON THE GLOBAL
HEALTH FOR DECADES, CAN YOU
COMMENT ON THE LEVEL AND TIMING
OF THE INFORMATION THAT YOU
RECEIVE AND RELIED UPON FROM
THE
CHINESE COUNTERPARTS AS THIS
VIRUS EMERGED?
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH. I WANT
TO TALK ABOUT HOW IMPORTANT
GLOBAL SECURITY IS FOR THE
NATION. WE'RE GOING TO NEED TO
BE ABLE TO RESPOND TO THAT AS
LONG AS WE'RE A NATION. CDC HAS
HAD RELATIONSHIPS WITH
COUNTRIES
AROUND THE WORLD. WE HAVE
OFFICES IN OVER 45 COUNTRIES
RIGHT NOW. ONE OF THOSE HAPPENS
TO BE CHINA WHERE WE HAVE A
U.S.
CDC THAT IS WITH THE CHINA CDC,
AND WE HAVE WORKED TOGETHER FOR
DECADES
ON FLU AND INFECTIOUS
DISEASES.
. THE ORIGINAL AND THE
SEAFOOD MARKET IS HERE AND
THERE'S A DISCUSSION FROM THE
U.S. PERSONNEL THAT IS THERE
FOR
THE CHI NO CDC AND I PERSONALLY
HAD THE DISCUSSIONS AND I THINK
THAT CDC WAS THERE AND THEN
MYSELF AND JANUARY 3RD.
.
>> AND THE U.S. WITH OVER 81%
AND THEN ALSO 81 THOUSAND AND
,000 AND.
>> WELL, OVERALL IT'S THE FOUR
WITNESSES THAT WANTED TO BRING
IN THE FACT THAT WE'RE NOT OUT
OF THE WOODS. THAT'S WHAT DR.
FAUCI SAID THAT WE NEED
TO TAKE
THIS VERY SERIOUSLY. & WE NEED
TO LOOK AT THE MODELS AND SAYS
WE NEED TO SEE THE SCHOOLS NOT
SHUT DOWN AND THERE WERE NOT A
LOT OF THE CASES. THE AMERICAN
STUDENTS NEED TO RETURN TO
SCHOOL BEFORE THEY'RE TOO FAR
BY
HIND. HE SAYS THAT DR. FAUCI
SHOULD NOT BE THE END ALL ON
ALL
OF THIS. NOW, WHAT IS IMPORTANT
IS THE RESPONSE TO THAT AND
ILLUSTRATES HOW HE USUALLY
APPROACHES THE QUESTIONS LIKE
THAT. HE SAY THAT IS HE DOES
NOT BELIEVE THAT HE IS THE END
ALL, BUT HE DOES NOT KNOW
EVERYTHING. HE IS VERY CAN DID
WHEN HE SAYS THAT HE DOES NOT
KNOW EVERYTHING,
.
>> AND PLEASE CONTINUE ABOUT THE
TONE OF THE HEARING.
>> RIGHT. HE WANTED TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE JUST DID NOT
DISMISS IT AND SAY CHILDREN DO
NOT HAVE AS HIGH A
MORTALITY
RATE AS OLDER INDIVIDUALS.
AND
THEN THAT'S JUST FINE. THAT'S
NOT EXACTLY BEEN THE CASE SINCE
WE HAVE SEEN THIS CORONAVIRUS
PAY OUT. WE DON'T REALLY KNOW
ALL OF THE FACTS JUST YET.
THINGS ARE STILL DEVELOPING.
WHAT I WAS SAYING ABOUT THE
TONE
OF THE HEARING AND IT WAS NOT
AS
CON TENSOUS AS SOME THAT WE
MIGHT HAVE SEEN. THEY SAID THAT
THAT WE SHOULD HAVE APPROACHED
THIS IN A BIPARTISAN FASHION,
AND WE DID NOT SEE MUCH OF
THAT.
THERE'S POLITICS AND YOU DID
HAVE SENATOR WARREN AND SHE
USED
UP HER TIME TO POINT OUT AND
CRITICIZE THAT THE PRESIDENT
DID
NOT HANDLE THIS RIGHT IN THE
BEGINNING AND THE UP INNER OF
DEATHS. BERNIE SANDERS SAID
THAT AS WELL,
TOO WITH THE
EARLIER RESPONSE.
AND IN THE
HEARING AND THEN AT THE END SHE
IS IN A
TOUGH RACE IN GEORGE AND
THEN
-- THERE WERE NOT A LOT OF
TECHNICAL GLITCHES. THERE ARE
NOT A LOT OF ISSUES AND YOU
HAVE
TO WONDER IF THIS IS WHAT WE'RE
GOING SEE FROM NOW ON
BECAUSE OF
THE CONGRESS DEPRESSION AL
DEPRESSIONAL HE
ENDED BY SAYING THAT SOON IS
NOT
HELPFUL AND HE DID NOT GET THE
ANSWERS ON WHAT ARE THE
COMPLICATIONS HERE FOR DR.
REDFIELD.
>> YEAH, THE COMPLICATIONS ARE
SIGNIFICANT. THEY'RE SQUEEZED
INSIDE OF THE TASK FORCE AND
THEN THERE WAS A MEETING A WEEK
AGO ON WEDNESDAY, SO A WEEK AGO
TOMORROW WHERE DEBORAH AND THE
DOCTOR THAT LEADS THE TASK
FORCE
BASICALLY UPGRADED HIM IN THE
ROOM AND THE REPORTING AND
COMPLAINED ABOUT A LOT OF
PROBLEMS IN THE CDC AND DELAYS
AND THE LACK OF THE RELIABLE
DATA AND HE IS SORT OF IN MANY
WAYS THE CDC HAS NOT HAD HIS
OWN
STAND ALONE BRIEFING IN SOME
TIME, AND SO THE CHALLENGE FOR
HIM IS THAT HE, YOU KNOW, WANTS
TO
MAKE SURE THAT HE CONTINUE IS
CONTINUES I
THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE IN THE
ADMINISTRATION AND THEN THE
ESCAPE GILT IN THE CDC IN SOME
WAYS. I THINK THAT IT'S THE
DEEPER PROBLEMS IN THE PUBLIC
HEALTH THAT WE TOOK FOR
GRANTED.
WE SORT OF ASSUME AND THAT'S
THE
PREMIER AND THEN THAT IS A KIND
OF A THING AND WE HAVE SEEN
THAT
THERE'S BEEN SOME THINGS OVER
TIME WITH THE BUDGET CUTS AND
SOME SORT OF THINGS. HE IS
TRYING TO PRESERVE THE REP
TUITION OF THE AGENCY.
>> LET'S GO BACK TO RHONDA ON
THE CAPITOL HILL. WE SAW THEM
COMING IN AND WEARING MASKS.
THEY TOOK THEM OFF AS THE
HEARING WAS GOING ON AND THERE
ARE OTHERS THAT DID NOT GO AND
THEN HE HAS HAD THE
CORONAVIRUS,
AND THEY WERE CONCERNS ON
WHETHER OR NOT HE WOULD SPREAD
IT
JUST A FEW WEEKS AGO.
& I
CAN TELL YOU THIS MORNING AND I
HAVE SEEN MOST THAT COME HERE
TO
DO THE REMOTE HITS WITH THE
NETWORKS AND THEN THEY'RE
WEARING MASKS AND THEN WE'RE
WEARING THEM AS THEY WALK AND
THERE ARE A LOT
OF PEOPLE AND
GLOVES, TOO.
& THEN IN THE IN
THE LAST BILL WHEN PEOPLE GAVE
THE SPEECHES AND SOME WEARING
THE MASKS AND OTHERS WERE NOT
AND THEN THE COLLEAGUES
AND THEN
THE MASKS AND THEN AND IT'S
SORT
OF AN INTERESTING THOUGHT AND.
THE DATES AND THEN PREMATURE
AND
THEN THERE'S A RISK THAT YOU
TRIGGERED THE OUTBREAK AND THEN
THE CONTROL AND THEN THAT'S
GOING TO LEAD TO THE SUFFERING
AND DEATH THAT COULD BE AVOIDED
AND JAMES DID YOU GET THE
MESSAGE AND DID THEY GET THAT?
>> YEAH, THEY DID. AND YOU
KNOW, IN SAYING THAT THIS IS
PROBABLY THE PRIMARILY IN
NORTHEAST PROBLEM. I THINK THAT
HE CONVEYED DR. FAUCI VERY
SPECIFICALLY MADE THE ECONOMIC
ARGUMENT, AND THAT'S IF WE JEEP
TOO SOON, IT'S GOING TO HURT
THE
ECONOMY MORE IN THE LONG TERM.
I THINK THAT KIND OF THE KEY
THAT DR. FAUCI HAS BEEN IN THE
SENIOR LEVELS IN THE GOVERNMENT
SINCE THE MID-1980s. HE KNOWS
AND UNDERSTAND SORT OF HOW THIS
IS GOING TO GO AND PLAY. AT ONE
POINT HE IS TEED UP GAIN AND
THEN MAKING THAT CRISPER FOR
THE
CAMERAS AND THEN THE WHOLE DAY
I
THINK HIS THEME WAS A REALITY
CHECK. ONE OF THE AREAS THAT
WAS MOST INTERESTING WITH THE
REALITY CHECK FROM DR. FAUCI
WAS
ON THE VACCINE. HE DID, YOU
KNOW, HE HAD A VERY NEW
MESSAGE.
HE SAYS THAT HE IS HOPEFUL THAT
THERE'S SIGN THAT IS A VACCINE
CAN BE DEVELOPED FOR THE NOVEL
CORONAVIRUS. WE HAVE NEVER
DEVELOPED A NOVEL VACCINE FOR
THE CORONAVIRUS LIKE THIS. HE
SAYS THERE'S ALSO A RISK AND
THERE'S A CHANCE THAT THE FIRST
VACCINES THAT WE DEVELOP AND
THIS IS THE REASON WHY THE EX
PER MEANTLE PHASE IS IMPORTANT,
IS THAT THEY CAN HAVE THE
CONSEQUENCES THAT IN SOME
PEOPLE
THE VACCINE HAS BEEN TESTED, IT
CAN MAKE THE CORR OR MUST
HAVE
WORSE AND THEN DEADLIER.
AND
THIS IS WHAT SO MANY PEOPLE
CARE
ABOUT AND MATTERS HUGELY AND
THEN I DO THINK THAT THE REST
OF
THE SENATORS AND THIS IS NOT
COMING AROUND THE CORNER. YOU
HAVE TO GET USED TO AND THEN AT
ONE POINT WHEN LAMAR WAS ASKING
ABOUT AND THEN THE ADMIRAL SAYS
THAT THEY'RE LOOKING AT WAYS TO
TEST THE WATER COMING OUT OF
THE
SEWAGE PIPES AND THEN ONE OF THE
DORMS TO SEE IF THERE'S A
CORONAVIRUS IN THE PIPES. I
THINK THAT IT WAS SORT OF AN
ILLUSTRATION ON HOW IT'S 23409
GOING GO BACK TO NORMAL ANY
TIME
SOON. THIS IS THE THING THAT
THEY'RE TALKING ABOUT FOR THE
FALL. I DO THINK THAT THE
REALITY CHECK AS INTENDED WAS
DELIVERED BOTH TO THE SENATORS
IN THE ROOM AND TO THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE WATCHING.
>> LET'S TALK ABOUT THE VACCINE
WHEN DR. FAUCI WAS PRESSED A
COUPLE OF TIMES ON THE
QUESTION.
HE SAYS IT'S NOT A LONG SHOT.
IT WAS SOME WHAT REASSURING AND
A LITTLE FRIGHTENING. WHAT YOU
WANT TO HEAR IS THAT IT'S GOING
TO HAPPEN IN A TIMELINE IN
WHICH
IT'S GOING TO HAPPEN. HE GAVE
THE EXPLANATION ON WHY IT'S NOT
A LONG SHOT AND BECAUSE THERE
ARE CASES OF PEOPLE ABLE TO
RECOVER TO HAVE BODIES AS HE PUT
IT CLEARING THE VIRUS, HE DOES
BELIEVE THEY CAN WORK TOWARDS
FIGURING OUT HOW TO GET THE
IMMUNITY FROM THE CORONAVIRUS
AND THEN LEADING TO THE
IMMUNITY. JAMES, IF YOU ARE
SOMEONE ASKING THE QUESTIONS ON
THE VACCINE, DID YOU WALK AWAY
FROM THE HEARING MORE ASSURED
OR
MORE CONCERN ABOUT JUST HOW
LONG
IT CAN TAKE TO DEVELOP THE
VACCINE?
>> I THINK WHAT WE ALL CREATED
WAS THE HONESTLY. I THINK THAT
HE GAVE AN ANSWER THAT CONVEYED
BUT WE'RE SO USED WHEN AND
THAT'S SO OVER THE TOP AND THEN
BLAYNELY AT ODDS WITH THE FACTS
ON THE GROUND AND THAT THEY DO
NOT HAVE A LOT OF CREDIBILITY.
I THINK THAT THERE'S
A GREAT
DEAL OF CREDIBILITY.
AND THEN
ONE OF THE OTHER POINTS THAT WE
MADE DURING THE HEARING WAS
THAT
THEN YOU HAVE TO START TO THINK
ABOUT THE DELIVERY MECHANISM
FOR
THE VACCINES AND THAT IT'S NOT
EVEN IF YOU COME UP WITH WHAT
WORKS, YOU HAVE TO SEE WHAT
MAKES ENOUGH DOSES TO BE ABLE TO
CREATE THE IMMUNITY AND TO BE
ABLE TO GET THOSE DOSES TO THE
DEVELOPING WORLD THAT MAY NOT
BE
ABLE TO AFFORD THEM AND THE
LIGHT. I THINK THAT IT'S
REFRESHING TO HEAR SOMEONE BE
REALISTIC ON THE POSSIBILITIES,
AND I DO THINK THAT HE IS BEING
HOPEFUL AND OPTIMISTIC AND THE
CHALLENGES.
>> LET'S GO BACK TO THEM ON THE
QUESTION OF VACCINES. AND THEN
COMMIT TO THE FREE VACCINES.
THEY SORT OF KICKED
THE CAN BACK
TO HIM.
>> YEAH, THAT'S WHAT HE SPENT A
LOT OF THE QUESTIONING TIME
ABOUT IS THE VACCINES, BERNIE
SANDERS AND ASKING WILL ALL
PEOPLE DESPITE THE INCOME OR
WHERE THEY ARE, WILL THEY BE
ABLE TO GET THE VACCINE.
GRCHLT
FAUCI DID SAY THAT THEY HAVE
NOT
WORKED AS FAST IN HIS KNOWLEDGE
AS FAST ON THE VACCINE COMPARED
TO OTHER TIMES. IT DOES APPEAR
THAT, YOU KNOW, THERE'S MORE
PROGRESS THAN THE LAST TIME
THAT
THE WITNESSES WERE ON THE HILL.
IT'S MUCH A QUESTION. YOU HAVE
EVEN HAD SENATORS
START TO PUT
OUT THE LEGISLATION --
>> CONTACT TRACING AND THE D.C.
AND THEN YESTERDAY THAT THEY
HIRED THE FIRST 17 CONTACT
TRACERS THAT THEY WANT TO HIRE
700 OF THEM. THE CDC PLAN THAT
HAS NOT BEEN RELEAS DE
LEASED AND THAT'S
LESS THAN WHAT THEY THINK IS
REALISTIC. THAT'S WHY THE TECH
COMPANIES THAT ARE COMPETITORS
LIKE APPLE AND SAMSUNG AND
GOGGLE ROW WORKING TOGETHER TO
TRY TO DEVELOP AN APP THAT WE
CAN INSTALL ON THE PHONES AND
AUSTRALIA HAS SOMETHING LIKE
THIS AND THEN A BUNCH OF
COUNTRIES HAVE ROLLED OUT THE
APP.
IT'S BASICALLY A CONTRACT
TRACING APP SO THAT IF, YOU
KNOW, YOU TEST POSITIVE THAT YOU
CAN IDENTIFY THAT AND THEN IT
TELLS ANYONE THAT'S REALLY
CLOSE
TO, YOU KNOW, LESS THAN FIVE
FEET FROM YOU FOR MORE THAN
FIVE
MINUTES IT TELLS THEM THAT THEY
WERE IN CLOSE CONTACT WITH
SOMEONE THAT WAS IN THE
POSITION. THE TECH COMPANIES
ARE TRYING TO DEVELOP THAT APP
FOR CIVIL LIBERTY REGIONS. THE
GOVERNMENT HAS MADE THE
DECISION
TO HAVE THE TECH COMPANIES DO
THAT AND NOT THE GOVERNMENT DO
THAT FOR IT TO WORK, YOU WILL
NEED TENS OF MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS TO DOWNLOAD THE APP.
THE NAME IS THAT YOU DO GIVE UP
THE DEGREE AS PART OF THAT.
THAT'S GOING TO BE KIND OF A KEY
ELEMENT OF THE CONTRACT TRACING
FOR THE COUNTRY AND 30 MILLION
PEOPLE.
>> JAMES, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
IT'S SO GOOD TO SEE YOU. I
REALLY APPRECIATE THE TIME.
JAMES THE AUTHOR OF THE
POLITICAL REPORTER. I WANT TO
THANK RHONDA FOR JOINING US.
THANK YOU FOR WATCHING OUR
COVERAGE FROM THE WASHINGTON
POST. THIS HISTORIC HEARING OF
A TOPIC THAT AFFECTS SO MANY OF
US. IN FACT ALL OF US.  WE WILL
CONTINUE THE COVERAGE
THIS
AFTERNOON AT 3:00. IN AN HOUR
WE WILL BE BACK WITH A SPECIAL
REPORT FROM THE WASHINGTON
POST.
I WILL BE JOINED BY THE HEALTH
POLICY REPORTER AS WELL AS THE
REPORTERS COVERING THE ECONOMY.
THE LATEST MEDICAL DEVELOPMENTS
AND THE POLITICS OF THIS STORY.
PLEASE TAKE A MOMENT TO
SUBSCRIBE TO THE WASHINGTON
POST
WHEREVER YOU MAY BE WATCHING
US.
THE SUPPORT HELPS US TO DELIVER
THE VERY BEST IN JOURNALISM.
THANKS FOR TUNING IN. I AM
LINDSEY CASEY, AND I WILL SEE
YOU BACK HERE SHORTLY AT 3:00
EASTERN.